
Wikisocion ESI composite

Ethical Sensing Introtim, ESI, Fi Se or archetype Theodore Dreiser.

1. Fi Introverted Ethics

The ESI sees reality primarily through static personal ethics and stable interpersonal bonds between individuals, including himself, where the status of such interpersonal bonds is determined by his personal ethics. The ESI is very confident in evaluating the ethical or moral qualities, and their consistency, of other people as well of himself. This makes ESIs seem “judgmental” or “self-righteous” to people less so inclined. If an ESI has difficulty in deciding the status of a personal relationship, he will take action to try to reach a conclusion, but if that continues to elude him, he will regard the relationship as not worth it. His own sense of constancy in personal ethics and in his relationships with others is a very strong factor in his sense of self-worth.

This is manifested as a very high regard for personal loyalty and integrity, both on the part of the ESI and of others towards each other and towards the ESI. The idea that he failed on that is extremely upsetting to an ESI, and such a suggestion, made by others, is seen as the ultimate insult if the ESI himself does not agree. The same goes for accusations of unethical or unprincipled behavior that the ESI regards as unjustified.

ESIs are very often more confident of the status of a personal relationship - and of what it should be in their view - than other persons; therefore ESIs often take it upon themselves to establish, maintain, preserve, or change the status of such relationships.
2. Se Extraverted Sensing

ESIs take direct action to accomplish their goals and desires in the face of external obstacles, and also the interests of their close friends, family, or associates. This may involve prodding others to take necessary action, deliberately applying pressure in specific situations, or abruptly taking on an organizational role. ESIs do not generally seek out confrontation, but neither are they afraid of it. They are inclined to be resolute in taking action and value this quality in themselves and others; however, this also leads to occasional impulsiveness, leading to actions that the ESI later regrets and wishing he hadn’t taken, with considerable self-criticism.

ESIs take their responsibilities seriously and tend to perform them diligently and with care. They expect the same of others and make that clear. They can be very demanding co-workers and bosses, but not more than they are of themselves.

ESIs tend to evaluate people’s ethical behavior “as it is” and not “as it could be” or “as it could be interpreted according to the context or another person’s point of view”. That means that they can be perceived as unrelentingly harsh, even unforgiving or vindictive, when correcting, punishing or even avenging what they see as unethical behavior, especially betrayal of trust. “Evil must be punished” or even “destroyed” is one of the ESI’s mottos.

ESIs place great value in long-term achievement and accumulation of wealth, but only as long as those do not conflict with their Fi priorities.

ESIs have a strong sense of what is and is not physically attractive, and will often judge themselves against a very difficult criteria.

3. Ti Introverted Logic

The ESI is able to talk about things from a dispassionate academic or theoretical point of view for brief periods of time, but seems overly bookish when doing so and tends to grow tense. When feeling obliged to justify logically a personal decision taken for reasons determined by Fi, the ESI attempts to do so but grows quickly annoyed especially if the inconsistency in the logical argument is pointed out. He then either explains the ethical motivation or avoids the issue altogether.

ESIs see the value of logical consistency in systems for areas or tasks they see as useful, but do not see the point of lingering on that if the pursuit of such consistency deviates too long or deeply from practical reality or from concerns relating to individuals and their relationships, and they are not really interested in discussions by others who choose to do so.
4. Ne Extraverted Intuition

The ESI is highly skeptical about ideas and opportunities that may appear not to lead anywhere specifically, and seeks concrete assurance that actual material benefits will be achieved. The ESI prefers the kind of ideation that seems to lead somewhere (offer solutions) rather than the sort that is most likely to bring upheaval and unwanted changes. So they don’t want to hear about all the possible problems in a situation, they’d rather hear only the very likely problems if there are any, and the benefits.

The ESI dislikes evaluations of people’s potential to engage in activities or develop skills in which they haven’t had experience yet; above all he is uncomfortable with such discussions by other people regarding himself. This makes the ESI concerned about the impression he makes on other people in those areas. He is inclined to be either over-skeptical of his own potential or going to the other extreme and overestimate his possibilities in specific areas on occasion.

ESIs are often amused by, and attracted to, demonstrations of the intense use of Ne by others if at least tangentially connected to ideas that might have some practical use (Te); but they are repelled by it if used in such a way as to excessively contextualize Fi ethics to the point of irrelevancy.

5. Te Extraverted Logic

The ESI is attracted to people seen as knowledgeable, as well as truthful and willing to share that knowledge, in matters seen as interesting and useful to the ESI towards achieving productivity and efficiency. Reliable information rather than the finished analysis is what attracts the ESI: facts and explanations, not answers limited to the conclusions, which they tend to see as mere opinions. For the same reason, the ESI avoids people who are inclined to give out unreliable, or simply untruthful, information.

The ESI tends to be unsure the productivity of his actions and unconsciously relies on others to give him impressions and advice about the best, most productive ways of doing things. He has difficulties measuring how much work he has done, whether it is sufficient, and how much it is actually worth. The individual admires people who are aware of the productivity of their actions and are always trying to do something rational and worthwhile.

ESIs are very keen to accumulate information on matters they find useful or just interesting, but they also need the company of persons with whom they can exchange evaluations as to the accuracy and usefulness of that information.
6. Ni Introverted Intuition

ESIs appreciate periodically having an outside evaluation of how a situation is likely to develop in order to keep from worrying excessively. Without an outside reassurance that a task can be accomplished in time without hurry, or that there is no need to deal with an ongoing development and that for the moment it’s best to wait and see, ESIs tend to get anxious about running out of time, and inclined to try to deal with such issues immediately and sometimes impulsively.

ESIs are resolute and decisive in dealing with situations they see developing or already in front of them, but at the same time they are keen to avoid being too impulsive and taking actions they will regret later. They admire people who always seem to know when it is best to act or to bid your time for a more opportune moment, and aim at emulating such people, often succeeding; but at the same time the ESIs are worried that they are thinking too much of the consequences instead of acting, so sometimes acting impulsively.

ESIs place great value in thinking about the consequences of actions and whether they are opportune or not, but such considerations are often overruled by their inclination to take action before it’s too late.

7. Fe Extraverted Ethics

The ESI is perfectly able to integrate in a group emotional situation, such as of people having fun and trading jokes, and sustain that mood in himself for a long period of time. The ESI is also usually adept at promoting such an atmosphere himself. However, he sees no point in doing so if his own inner emotional state does not prompt him towards that, especially if he does not have positive private feelings towards the other people involved.

The ESI is aware of the need to keep a “polite façade” in certain social and professional situations, even in the presence of people he personally dislikes, or during periods of negative inner emotions, but he refuses to actively attempt to integrate in, or promote, a positive external emotional atmosphere in such occasions: to the ESI, that would mean crossing the line from politeness into hypocrisy. The ESI’s disinclination for doing so increases along with his feelings of closeness with the individuals present.

Accordingly, the ESI is very confident in spotting when another person is “spoiling” a group emotional atmosphere without noticing it, and will discreetly warn that person if the ESI judges it to be advisable in that situation. However, the ESI does not regard such social missteps as a character flaw in the person, and may even be reassured by this kind of awkwardness.

The ESI’s ability to merge into a pleasant social atmosphere if he sees no strong reasons for not doing so, and yet actively go against it if he considers it called for, may be perceived as intentional “bitchiness” by those more sensitive to Fe.
8. Si Introverted Sensing

The ESI is confident of his ability to recognize and evaluate the physical condition and well-being of himself and others; also aesthetic sensations, and the internal effects of sensory stimulants, such as good food and relaxing situations. He can provide a convincing evaluation of these when prompted, however, the ESI regards soothing, relaxing things and discussions of them as sources of amusement rather than a priority in life. He does not treat them very seriously, or allow himself to engage in them very often, despite his overall confidence in these areas. When he does choose to focus attention on his physical condition and well-being, he is more likely to prefer an Se approach and impose a strict, demanding dietary or exercise regimen upon himself or others.

Accordingly, the ESI will be ready to provide advice on such matters to others, if asked or if he considers it really necessary, but he will not consider it a very important skill or priority in other persons and, in fact, will be put off by persons who make such considerations the central focus of their lives.

ESIs are usually inclined to devote a significant part of their free time and available income to matters related to Si such as fine food, relaxing atmospheres in pleasant locations, and outdoor activities, also with the aim of promoting Fi bonds; but only as long as such activities do not jeopardize the ESIs’ main goals in life, in which case they will be dropped.
Common social roles

    The moralist who is quick to judge people for good and bad behavior, finds fault easily, and punishes just as easily.

    The devoted worker who quietly and unfailingly fulfills his or her duty and expects the same from others.

    The sentimental yet tenacious achiever who has a very strong motivation to achieve a specific prestigious career goal, yet has a great deal of interpersonal sensitivity and often insecurity.

ESI subtypes
Ethical subtype Fi-ISFj (Fi-ESI)
Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov

Appearance

The ethical subtype usually makes an impression of a modest, gentle, soft person, but in his soul he is very principled, demanding, and distrustful. It is difficult to make him change his mind. Can be very stubborn and intractable. Sensitive, prudish, dislikes imposing his company. Internally highly critical and applies his high ethical standards to other people, though may not openly voice this. If his principles are touched, he can suddenly show his character, becoming sharp and uncompromising. Hardworking and practical. At work he is responsible and painstaking. Shows good manners, tries to be gracious and refined. Dresses with taste, though somewhat monotonously. His gaze is soft, at times frightened, and testing. In interactions with others, this is a soulful, attentive, caring and considerate person.

Character

Restrained, tactful, and polite in interaction. Discerning of relationships. Principled in matters of morality and responsibility. Distinguished by his sharp and categorical conclusions. He is constantly analyzing actions of other people and condemning any violations of moral and ethical norms. However, he tries to be more tolerant towards others and doesn’t immediately express his opinions if they are negative. Very observant: readily notices personal flaws and capabilities of other people. Remembers the mistakes of others for a long time, and if opportunity presents itself can resort to his “personal files”. May idealize those he is sympathetic towards from a distance. Demonstrates his attitude not only by words but also by actions.

This is a person of duty. Does not spare his time and effort for upkeep of order and stability at work. Does his work meticulously and thoroughly, overcoming any obstacles that arise on the way. Does not put off and delay everyday tasks and chores until later. Makes himself to do work that is uninteresting but necessary. Helps out others with work that they cannot cope with by the deadlines. Very conscientious, aware of his obligations, and responsible person, but prefers to share responsibility with others. Inclined to sit at work late, trying to finish up everything. Accurately maintains records.

Careful, guarded and distrustful, afraid of making mistakes and letting down others. Painfully endures injustice and critical remarks regarding his abilities. Needs praise and compliments, though usually he does not show this. Tries to exercise foresight in everything, so that any unexpected events don’t catch him by surprise. Prefers to plan for future activities. Prepares for everything in advance, is punctual and usually does not run late.

Does not give any promises if he is unsure that he can fulfill them. Shy and indecisive, dislikes imposing anything on strangers. Appreciates comfort, both at his workplace and in relationships. Expresses his attitude not so much by words, as by the tone of his voice and look.

Stable and in his habits, interests and affections. Yielding in relations, may put aside his own affairs to solve problems of his partner. Very impressionable and vulnerable, but shares his sufferings only with his close ones. Values friendship and does not forgive betrayal. Considerate and courteous. Modest and undemonstrative, tries not to stand out. Dresses simply, but with good taste.
Description by Victor Gulenko

Delicate and sensitive in nature. A good judge of character and a reliable friend. Capable of coming to a compromise. With his softness and ease of interaction he sometimes resembles an SEI. This subtype is often a better implementer than an organizer. It’s important to him how others regard him, their opinions of him. Attentive, caring, and sensitive. Good with small children. Can realize himself in applied arts and cultural work. Outward appearance is modest. He rarely follows fashion and prefers a freer style.
Sensory subtype Se-ISFj (Se-ESI)
Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov

Appearance

The sensory subtype is quite strict, critical, and ironic. Categorical in conclusions and uncompromising in decisions. Internally sensitive and emotional, but tries to appear as strong, cold, self-assured person. Serious, guarded, and private. Conservative in his tastes and habits. Diligent in work, though sometimes he lacks in attention and perseverance to complete his assignments. At times seems unapproachable, arrogant, and prickly. His gaze is piercing. His face sometimes assumes a guarded expression. Well-wishing and attentive, but keeps at a distance from others. Quite undemonstrative. Dislikes it when his appearance is inspected; afraid of external evaluations. Takes care of his looks, dresses elegantly, with taste and a bit of strictness. If he is confident in his appearance, may allow himself to wear additional accessories. His gait is often hammering.

Character

Stubborn, firm, and uncompromising in matters that are of importance to him. Strong-willed and enduring. Industrious and venturesome. Energetic and quick in handling practical matters. Can do several things at once, showing extraordinary work ethic and efficiency. From time to time, needs an emotional discharge. Difficult life situations invigorate him and stimulate him to search for quick solutions and exits out of current circumstances. With difficulty takes the initiative in making new acquaintances and establishing new contacts, but usually takes the first steps in breaking off relations that have run their course. Observant and clever, at the right time can hit the weakest spot of his opponent. To good and poor treatment answers with the same. Has a tendency to divide people into “his own” and “others”.

Seems somewhat inaccessible, vigilant, and alert. Dislikes it when someone puts his qualities to an evaluation because internally he is not fully confident in himself. Intolerant of those who are lazy, slovenly, and disingenuous. Does not forgive rudeness and tactlessness, which may even serve as a reason to break up relations for him. In a company of unfamiliar or unpleasant people, he feels constrained and may choose to leave quietly. Does not like unexpected visitors, quickly becomes tired of them. At times he is overly distrustful and suspicious of others.

In conversation with people tries to determine their abilities and possibilities for future practical application in some area. Tries to evaluate people objectively, regardless of his sympathies for them. Often possesses good administrative skills. In his decisions seeks to rely on factual information.

In a circle of close people, he is usually talkative, makes jokes, sometimes asks tricky questions, inclined to play pranks and set up ruses; attempts to entertain others. Subordinates his emotions to the situation: he is cheerful among those who are cheerful and serious among those who are serious. Defends and upholds ethical standards. Selflessly protects his own interests and interest of people who are close to him. Able to make others subjugate to his will. In difficult situations, readily lends his help to others and offers his services. Tries not to show his anger and spite openly, but not everyone can withstand his penetrating, prickly gaze.

Places high demands on himself. Quickly adapts to new circumstances if he finds them favorable. Poorly tolerates ambivalence and hesitation. Finds it difficult to wait for resolution of important for him questions. Often fluctuates in selection of a goal, but at a critical moment he can make the right decision. Poorly feels the progression of time; due to this, grows nervous getting ready for anything, feels anxious that he won’t make it on time. Feels worried concerning upcoming changes, for example, when he has to take a trip. Cherishes stability, supports conventions of his own circle. Somewhat suspicious and skeptical.

A good economist, able to efficiently handle his finances, dislikes being in debt. Easily takes the initiative in concrete and practical activities, can even be assertive and imposing. Intolerant of irresponsibility and disorganization. Often possesses a developed aesthetic taste and dresses originally. Clean and neat, and demands the same from others. Finds it difficult to discern individual capabilities and hidden motives of others; due to this can have problems with his work colleagues, family members and children.
Description by Victor Gulenko

This is a person of duty, very active and enduring. Characterized by expansionism within a small circle. Can be aggressive if he’s not agreed with. In conflict situations is never the first to seek reconciliation. Gravitates to administrative roles. May become managers of medium-sized groups, keeping discipline and order, and applying sanctions to those who are at fault. Often is quite forthright and blunt. Shows his attitude with an incinerating look. Businesslike and purposeful. Can give a rebuff to those who create illegal structures, as they easily recognize the seeds of such activities. Prefer prestigious style in clothing, sometimes even bright but not ostentatious tones.
