
Wikisocion IEE composite

Intuitive Ethical Extratim, IEE, Ne Fi or archetype Aldous Huxley.

1. Ne Extraverted Intuition

IEEs easily become enamoured with new ideas and prospects and tend to start working on them immediately, almost impulsively. The tendency to be preoccupied with yet unrealized potential makes it hard for them to bring existing projects and situations to full completion and materialization. It is easier to start something new than finish something old. When instilled with a sense of opportunity and novelty, the pace at which IEEs begin new undertakings can be almost frightening.

IEEs need to have quite a bit of free time available to investigate new opportunities, ideas, insights, and people that come along their way. Somehow they manage to keep pursuing these things even when they are overloaded with work and responsibility.

IEEs are “big picture” people: they easily grasp large concepts and effortlessly translate their observations into generalizations and trends. When learning a new subject, understanding the basic principles and how they fit together is more important than rote memorization of facts. They like to combine multiple things and ideas, rather than follow one thing to a logical conclusion. IEEs hate missing opportunities of any sort. They typically love irony because unforeseeable things can puzzle and excite them at the same time.
2. Fi Introverted Ethics

IEEs are naturally sensitive to mood, atmosphere, and feelings. They rarely say or do anything that would worsen people’s feelings, preferring instead to distance themselves from people and social situations that produce negative feelings. IEEs are naturally skilled at regulating the degree of emotional intimacy between people, which can mean being businesslike (yet polite) as well as warm and inviting.

When faced with a sad individual, the IEE will usually try to understand what is wrong, and will often try to coax the individual with kind words and actions. The IEE often displays a straight face even when faced with strong negative feelings.

Always on the IEE’s mind are the feelings of his or her friends. If the IEE does not know whether an individual is feeling good or ill will, the IEE will prod the individual until he or she displays their attitude.

IEEs are concerned with the opinions and feelings of those around them and try to avoid saying things that would cause arguments and bad feelings. He does this effortlessly. In fact, IEEs will often choose to follow a very open and accepting life philosophy in order to reconcile his own views with those of others.

When interacting with others, IEEs are naturally aware of the flow of emotion present and strive to interpret meanings out of individual emotional states. When they feel they’ve realized an accurate potentiality of the cause of someone’s behavior, IEEs commonly clarify their perceptions to ensure their understanding of another person. To actually aid the person in finding positive potential, however, depends on if the subject is important to the IEE (for example, they determine how close of a friend the person actually is to them).

IEEs are skittish about any sort of long-term membership in relationships, groups, or organizations which would imply certain duties and limitations on their freedom. They worry about being trapped in binding relationships where there are rules and demands on them that — in their opinion — would squelch their impulsive, freedom-loving search for new and interesting things and people to experience. They can overreact even to minor rules that don’t affect them — just as a matter of principle.

Therefore, IEEs prefer to gradually ease into their relationships (whether formal or informal) by simply seeing what results when they let themselves be guided by their curiosity and natural interest level. They don’t like to think about what others or “the system” might expect from them. They avoid clearly defining relationships, responsibilities, expectations, etc. and frequently feel threatened and overly rebellious when other people try to establish bounds and limitations that would affect them personally.

IEEs’ avoidance of commitment and general air of uncertainty and unpredictability can grate on some people — especially those who are trying to organize people for some joint task and need participants to follow certain conventions and behave predictably and obediently. IEEs by nature resist such situations and tend to drop out of group endeavors that require commitment and perseverance. Or, they can pretend that they are serious and committed — only to let down their teammates later on when their behavior loosens up and they reveal their true selves.
3. Se Extraverted Sensing

IEEs have the capability and ability to be direct and firm with others in such activities as giving direct commands or making categorical statements about things perceived. However, the period of time when this occurs in an IEE is generally short-lived. As soon as the IEE starts to think about and starts to seriously consider the negative connotations of their directness or firmness ( ), for example, fear of instilling fear in another person in such a way that it would cause the person to be timid to or even scared to approach the IEE thereby distorting the personal bonds the IEE has with the person ( ), the IEE will back away from making such statements. Therefore these direct and categorical statements are quite difficult for an IEE to make, even if the IEE understands the benefits of being direct or firm with others, such as the benefits of being firm or direct with children in parenthood.

If an IEE is directly challenged or if an IEE observes a task a person demonstrates that is subsequently performed by the IEE or a group that the IEE is in (such as a teacher showing a classroom how to put together a widget, and the classroom then is instructed to put together their own widget), the IEE will consciously want to show their propensity and ability in performing the task as good as, if not better or faster than the original person or at least better than the group that the IEE is in. Anything less is considered a failure. IEEs will want to show proficiency in any task that is given to them, even if novice failure is understood. This, again is to demonstrate visibly to others that “I can do it” or “I can do this satisfactorily”. Failing at accomplishing this and then subsequently being shown how to do the task is embarrassing for the IEE since they feel like they “should” have been able to accomplish the task if they were shown how to do the task at least once.

IEEs will struggle with things that require sustained willpower and self-motivation. Because of fluctuating interest levels in self-pursuits, these tasks are difficult to sustain. These tasks include (but are not limited to) staying motivated to keep a workout regimen, sticking with a diet, sticking to a routine of doing a particular errand at the same time periodically, and other similar tasks. If the willpower is not there, it cannot be artificially manufactured to get the IEE to “push through”. Concordantly, attempts by other people to get the IEE to “push through” is met with resistance. Though, it may be that the IEE will heed the call begrudgingly, this is not sustainable; the IEE will find a way out if this external push persists.
4. Ti Introverted Logic

IEEs tend to have a difficult time describing a concept or system in a manner in which the essential facts are all that is needed to understand or describe it. The IEE’s focus in describing a concept or system is in how they themselves came to understand and see what they are describing. If an IEE is asked to describe or explain something, their natural tendency is to describe the pieces of the concept, system or idea that are related to the subject as a foundation before explaining the actual concept itself. The IEE will often describe details or aspects of a system that are unnecessary to the understanding of the system’s properties, but the IEE views these details as essential functions of a sequential system (as opposed to describing the concept or system and only the concept or system as an independent entity). In other words, even if a detail is deemed outside of the IEE as extraneous, the IEE that is describing it will see it as a vital and significant part of a chain in order to paint the full, “proper” picture of the system the IEE wants to describe. An IEE will tend to start off explanations with a tremendous amount of detail, energy and patience and will move towards a more general explanation as they tire out (if they tire out). If something in the IEE’s chain is broken or questioned, the description (in the IEE’s mind) halts or falls apart.

When an IEE understands a logical concept or system, they are much better at describing anecdotal experiences with the concept or system that help to illustrate the concept or system. They would prefer to do this rather than describing the concept or system as described in the previous paragraph – describe the essential facts of a concept or system.

IEEs will demonstrate inconsistent behavioral patterns to the objective, outside world. But to the IEE, these behavioral patterns are as a result of a relativist view of how they make their decisions. For example, an IEE might be steadfastly against going to a particular branch of a bank to deposit a check that is easily accessible and only 2 miles away, but is perfectly content going to a different branch of the same bank that is 25 miles away and requires a roundabout route to get there. To the outside world this would not make sense; why not just go to the branch that is easier to access that can handle the same function? But to the IEE, this does not matter. Something at the closer branch bothers the IEE enough to justify going to the further one. Maybe a particular person works there that the IEE wants to avoid, maybe one time the IEE did something embarrassing while at the closer branch and they are embarrassed to show their face again. Regardless of the reason, the IEE will justify circumstances to dictate the decisions they make in their behavioral patterns.

The IEE is keenly aware of societal structures and affiliations that they belong to. These structures can be small entities such as “family” and large entities such as “political affiliation”. As such, an IEE will naturally speculate about how these societal structures they belong to would interact if they mingled (Ne+Fi). With a propensity to be involved in a diverse number of interests, IEEs find themselves in a position where they would deem that members of certain societal structures would clash if they met. This will, at times, cause IEEs to hide their affiliations to parties that they feel might cause scrutiny or criticism of their affiliations. They would rather not be judged by others based on their affiliations. Also, if an IEE is cast into an “incorrect” category, this can cause deep wounds in the IEE especially if the IEE believes that the person doing the casting will not change their position about the IEE’s affiliation, and as a result of that, believes it to be a negatively connoted statement of their own character.

5. Si Introverted Sensing

The IEE tends to be chronically unaware of his own bodily processes, including physiological sensations and a sense of balance and alignment with one’s true desires. He sometimes has peculiar preferences or tastes, which he himself is unable to understand or fulfill. In terms of physical sensations, an IEE will almost always choose the familiar over the novel, because they know that the familiar is reliable in the positive sensation it delivers. An IEE will typically have a single item he orders at certain restaurants without fail; if he isn’t in the mood for that item he doesn’t eat there. He will stubbornly refuse to eat anything that he knows he does not like, refusing to try a “new recipe” of anything that he did not like before. The IEE would much rather sleep in his own bed than anywhere else as a matter of familiarity, but this preference never enters his mind when a friend invites him to stay the night, sometimes resulting in a lack of quality sleep that the IEE will forget about the next time around. IEEs almost never emphasizes his attractiveness or sexuality overtly and publicly, but dreams of being pleasing to the senses to at least a small circle of trusted friends and partners who are able to develop and enhance his sexuality and attractiveness in a trusting atmosphere. He often will obsess about his looks in front of the mirror, trying to get the right combination of preparedness and liberated comfort. It is embarrassing to come to an event overdressed, as the IEE would rather look like they simply came on a whim rather than over-prepared. They will usually undermine the time spent in preparation and will avoid speaking on the topic altogether. When getting sick, the IEE may stubbornly refuse or “conveniently forget” to take any sort of medicine. Their chosen method of dealing with sickness and physical discomfort is ignoring it until it can no longer be ignored. An IEE will frequently forget meals and sleep when excitedly working on a new project or in some sort of social gathering. Exhaustion, hunger, thirst, and full bladders will be ignored until the need is overwhelming and affects the IEE’s concentration.
6. Te Extraverted Logic

The IEE is keen on accumulating factual knowledge on subjects of personal interest and those that help him be more efficient and productive, but he’s often unsure of his ability to find and select the correct information and is therefore attracted to people whom he sees as competent in that area and reassure him. He prizes efficiency, and berates himself secretly for his own inefficiency. He takes care to explain the justifications behind his actions. He loves accumulating and sharing trivia to make himself seem educated. IEEs believe firmly that knowledge should be shared freely. Asking an IEE to keep a secret is a burden on him. He can also be a little too trusting of information sources, because spreading falsehood is seen as a foreign and repulsive idea. IEEs love scientific and mathematic concepts, but practical application will soon bore them.

7. Ni Introverted Intuition

The IEE thoroughly understands discussions and arguments focused on following present trends into the future and their possible implications, as well as on exploring one specific imaginative vision of personal meaning, but he much prefers to explore many possibilities, starting from a present point in time and reality, rather than to concentrate on just a few specific visions or trends. He understands that the present moment may be changeable or not be as it seems, but refuses to think too much on the matter, choosing instead to keep a more practical view. To an IEE, the question “What if?” usually applies to something that the IEE can do to change his future, not some sort of alternate reality, such as “What if I bike instead of drive to work?” as opposed to “What if gravity didn’t exist?”
8. Fe Extraverted Ethics

The IEE appreciates situations where people are enjoying a positive emotional atmosphere as in having fun and joking together, and is quite adept at creating them himself, but does not see creating or promoting them a top priority, nor does he actively look for people who maintain or need such an atmosphere; too high a focus on that is seen by an IEE as overdone. He can be very empathetic and will frequently comfort his friends and acquaintances, mostly letting them vent to him, offering suggestions as to what to do about it. These are usually practical. The IEE may offer a more optimistic viewpoint, but will not press the matter if the optimism is not received well. He is usually genuinely concerned, but refuses to let the negative energy affect him. This may eventually become tiring if it persists as he will feel guilty for being happy in the face of those close to him being miserable. The IEE does not like conflict between people one bit; he would rather stay on everyone’s good side and keep in good terms with both sides of a conflict, preferring not to be judged by his affiliation with one side or another. In such situations he says very little that would give away where he truly sides on an issue.
Common social roles

    The self-appointed psychologist who shows interest in everyone’s personal, relationship, and career problems in order to figure out what might be the matter and offer pertinent advice.

    The social connector who knows lots of people in completely different areas of life and is constantly trying to hook people up with others who share their interests.

    The nonpartisan who knows that everybody can be right, and likes to explain people’s differing points of view to each other without taking sides.

IEE subtypes
Intuitive subtype Ne-ENFp (Ne-IEE)
Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov

Appearance

The intuitive subtype makes an impression of a person somewhat torn away from reality, internally focused, and at the same time scattered. Inclined to unexpected contrasts in behavior: shyness and apathy are suddenly replaced by emotional elation, decisiveness, and activity, the melancholic look on his face changes to inspired and joyful. Thoughtful and impulsive, optimistic and suppressed, timid and energetic, he imparts very varied impressions on others. Internally inconsistent, vulnerable, easily offended, but hides his problems under a mask of being carefree. Tries to be friendly with everyone, strives to understand all people, to favor everyone with his smile. Attentive, soft and tactful, predisposing towards trust. Willingly delves into the problems of others, tries to find a way out of difficult position and to give useful advice. Defends his views emotionally. Can exert psychological pressure on his opposition. His movements are impulsive, not well coordinated, and somewhat angular. Gait is fast and a bit awkward. Chin is often pointed. Gaze is attentive, interrogative or surprised, penetrating and perceptive.

Character

Very perceptive. Has a good sense for hidden motivations of people. Especially acutely sees people’s flaws, but tries not to show it to not offend anyone. Before him it is pointless to pretend. He hates falsity and hypocrisy. Forgiving towards various human weaknesses. Friendly and responsive, sympathizes with people, likes giving them advice in difficult life situations. Always see several varied solutions to the problem, and suggest a resolution or exit even in the most hopeless cases. He has the gift of persuasion, uplifts despairing people and inspires them to overcome the difficulties.

Discerning of people’s abilities. Gravitates towards talented and extraordinary personalities. Likes new experiences and impressions. Interested in all that is unusual and mysterious. Curious, reads much and reflects. This is a creative personality. Analyzes everything - tries to understand the essence of different phenomena. Feels bored if he doesn’t find a use for his abilities: from routine his vitality wanes. Tends to periodically change jobs or his hobbies, to test himself in a new pursuits, until he finds an occupation that he sincerely enjoys. He is constantly experimenting, looking for new directions and approaches in his work. He is very demanding towards himself and towards others in creative sense. Always can find flaws and faults and is therefore never completely happy with what has been done. Becoming inspired by any idea becomes its active supporter. Persistently promotes and develops it, not sparing his time and efforts.

Has a holistic, global approach to solving problems. Difficulties do not frighten him, but in the reverse they attract him. When he starts on one thing, he sees everything that is somehow related to it. Experiences difficulties in connection this, when there is a need to select the main important aspects and push aside all those secondary. Tries to finish the whole load of assignments and chores at once, as a result of which he overworks himself and loses faith in their own strengths. In such cases, needs a long rest and to focus his attention on something else. After this, gets back to work with renewed enthusiasm and completes his assignments. Cannot stand when he is subjected to a strict work schedule or when someone tightly manages his activities. Prefers to have independence that would allow him to live freely, by his own schedule, and to retain his individuality.

Demonstrates follow-through with his projects and interests others with them. His faith in success, even in the most hopeless cases, gets passed on to those around him, while his enthusiasm is able to shake the confidence of even the most hardened skeptics. Passionately defends his beliefs. If he is confident in his correctness, exerts strong emotional pressure on others, disregarding any authorities. Quickly notices weak spots of his opponent and can easily put him into a dead end. But grows tired from discussions quickly. Prefers to communicate with like-minded people, and thus creates a social circle around himself of people who have similar views and are sympathetic towards each other.

Able to see ahead, has a good sense for future development and prospect of affairs and relations. Perceives danger ahead of time, and tries to take measures to eliminate it in advance. Surprises people around him by his gift of prescience, as his predictions often come true. Having many options and choices of solutions, experiences difficulty with taking initiative. Unsure of himself, and especially in his own volitional qualities. Suffers due to his scatteredness and disorganization, and inertia of his character. Doesn’t know how to protect his material and financial interests. However, in extreme situations he is decisive, determined, cool-headed and discerning, instantly orients, showing courage and resourcefulness.

Reacts sensitively to rudeness, cruelty, injustice. Can lose his temper and flare up. Doesn’t always control himself in his words and actions. Calming down, tries to rectify the situation, especially if he feels himself in the wrong. Otherwise doesn’t compromise. Very impressionable and vulnerable. For a long time cannot get out of a stressed state. Even after many years, remembers what he had lived through and experienced down to the minutest details. Being disappointed in a person, forever crosses him out of his life. Not vindictive in little things. Able to forgive a lot to those whom he loves and respects.

Tries to be responsible and keep his obligations, to not let others down. Might not keep his word only due to easily getting distracted. Does not like to make promises if he is not confident that he can fulfill them. Sometimes does more than what is expected of him. Dislikes being in debt, having to ask for help, to impose himself or show vested interests. Strives to keep his appearance, his living space and his workplace in order, but this comes to him only with great effort. Impractical and yielding in everyday household matters, modest and undemanding towards items, but strives to look attractive, sometimes even extravagant. Doesn’t know how to take care of himself, but is in big need of both personal and physical comfort. Poorly tolerates overcrowdeding, large crowds of people, as well as absence of aesthetics in any of its manifestations.
Description by Victor Gulenko

Very sociable, temperamental, mobile person. Initiator of many things, characterized by a lot of restlessness and changeability. Very creative person, but at times he is scattered and lacks discipline. Capable of pouring out his dissatisfaction on his superiors, does not take relations of subordination into account. Outwardly, frequently has full rounded forms. In clothing can be demonstrative, bright, even gaudy.
Ethical subtype Fi-ENFp (Fi-IEE)
Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov

Appearance

The ethical subtype is artistic, impatient, a little extravagant. Unpredictable in his actions and statements. Like to surprise or entertain people around him, and even insignificant events present as big sensations. Frequently becomes the soul of the company: he is self-assured, has a good sense of humor, independent, original, and very impulsive. Characterized by a kind of sincerity and spontaneity similar to a small child who doesn’t hide his feelings. Can create familiar, homelike environment for communication even with unfamiliar to him people. Readily gives compliments, voices his admirations of people around him. Optimistic and amiable. Charming and coquettish, but too direct and rash in his statements and actions. This creates an impression of seeming availability or theatricality. At times assertive and pushy, periodically becomes focused. Looks directly at someone, attentively, not blinking. Movements are sharp and decisive. Gait is rapid and directed, assured, although somewhat angular. Often has a somewhat round face. Likes to dress originally, with taste, to impress others and to be liked by them.

Character

Single-minded, purposeful, determined, active and mobile. Clever, inventive, and resourceful in solving any problems. Believes in good luck no matter what happens. With his energy, optimism, and hard work he usually achieves his goals. He is able to overcome great obstacles. It is difficult for him to prepare for something in advance, he prefers impromptu improvisations. Sometimes he does even the incredible at the last moment, when seemingly there were no chances. Does not become lost under any circumstances. Even if he’s unsure of himself, demonstrates courage and determination, with which he can psychologically disarm an opponent.

Emotional, sociable, and welcoming. Knows how to find an approach to each person. Seems somewhat affectatious in his behavior. Readily gives compliments to people with a sincere desire to raise their mood and spirits, to do something pleasant for them. Tries to encourage everyone, to instill confidence in success. Charming and diplomatic. Of flaws and shortcomings speaks in a joking manner, so as not to offend. Talks of his own difficulties and troubles with humor, due to which some may come to view him as a carefree, light-minded, unproblematic person. Due to his desire to maintain good relations with everyone can overload himself with unnecessary contacts. Not accepting of conventions and prejudices. Trusting by nature: in a conversation can say too much, considering secrecy a sign of cowardice or insecurity.

Tries to be the center of attention and to be liked by everyone. Likes to win over people, but usually doesn’t go beyond this. Inclined to quickly become disappointed in the objects of his sympathy. Very much dependent on his moods, which sometimes affects his close relationships. Impulsive and straightforward, sometimes extravagant and unpredictable in his actions, but always interesting to people around him. Tries to be aware of the various events, so that given an opportunity he can stun others with original new, to tell them something extraordinary, sensational, spectacular. Has well-developed imagination, and in the course of telling a story adds interesting details, in which he himself may come to believe. At times confuses reality and imaginative fiction.

Enthusiastically defends his views and opinions. An opponent of hierarchy and rank subordination. Doesn’t become timid before his superiors, boldly defends his point of view and interests. Impressionable and easily takes offense. Can be hot tempered, unrestrained, at times even aggressive. However, easily moves on and forgives. Not envious, sincerely rejoices at the successes of others. Seems organic, natural, free and unconstrained in his behavior. Creates a trusting atmosphere in interaction and knows how to diffuse a tense situation.

Energetic and enterprising in new ventures, although at times he doesn’t have enough patience and follow-through. Restless, dislikes performing meticulous detailed work, to take care of documentation. Dislikes strict rules that hinder his independence. Can run late to events. Often doesn’t complete his assignment in time, as he gets distracted by extraneous activities and conversations. In interaction, often changes topics of conversation, jumping from one subject to another. Feels upset and discouraged if at this he loses sight of something important.

Energetic and enterprising in new business, although he sometimes lacks patience and consistency. Restless, he does not like hard work, documentation. He does not like the strict rules that hamper its independence. It may be late for the event. Often it does not have time to make the scheduled date, as distracted by extraneous things and talk. In conversation often changes the topic of conversation, jumping from one to another. It discouraged if it loses sight of something significant.

Due to tendency to scatter his attention, prefers to receive information in a concise, clear, memorable form. He doesn’t need lengthy explanations, understands everything from half a word. In important to him matters, he is conscientious, tries to be responsible at his job, works thoroughly and efficiently. Dislikes letting people down and becomes very upset if he fails to fulfill his agreements. Tries to fight irresponsibility in himself and atone for his fault in any way. Values the opinions of people in his circle. Feels offended if there are doubts of his abilities, his logic and business qualities. Self-critical, still the criticism of others wounds him deeply.

Inclined to risky adventures, that improve his vitality, travels and makes trips with much pleasure. He is often not careful enough and reckless in his actions. Needs care and attention of people around him. Not indifferent to comfort, but is unable to constantly maintain order and organization. From everyday and household problems, as well as from any routine, gets tired easily. Not thrifty and economical, careless, negatively views any manifestations of greed. Likes beautiful things. Looks simple and natural, but if he wishes can dress elegantly and originally. Looks after his figure. A hopeless romantic: inclined to idealize people and relationships. Dreams of harmony and perfection. Feels upset by the inability to find them in real life.
Description by Victor Gulenko

Sees in other people hidden desires, inclination, and attachments. Prefers to work at a short psychological distance, unlike the intuitive subtype. Likes giving advice, gravitates towards psychoanalysis, in this case counting on manifestation of positive qualities in people. Can stand up for others, defend their interests, but finds it more difficult to stand up for himself. Outwardly is often somewhat thin and elegant. Prefers free sitting clothes and soft tones.
