
Wikisocion IEI composite

Intuitive Ethical Introvert, IEI, Ni Fe or archetype Sergei Yesenin.

1. Introverted intuition

IEIs perceive, process, and produce information concerning trends and patterns over time most intensively. They constantly and inadvertently make judgments, assessments, and assumptions about relationships based on what they see as recurring trends from past behavior. They tend to understand the underlying dynamics of situations, people, etc., but may not be able to readily verbalize these insights since they are so internal and conceptual.

The temporal world of the IEI is vivid and complex. IEIs are very imaginative people who tend to be more mystical and dreamy, thus possibly annoying Symbol i.gif-seeking Logical types (LSEs and SLIs), who require practical applications for their ideas. Their gentle demeanor does not cast them as particularly rebellious, but their obscure desires are often a far cry from those of the typical person.
2. Extroverted ethics

IEIs apply their understanding of trends of behavior over time to observing, analyzing, and influencing people’s moods. They make contact with other people by attempting to influence their emotions positively, which is their way of creating something in themself worthy of being included in interaction.

IEIs are comfortable discussing feelings that arise from interaction between people. They are naturals at guessing who has been offended and approaching the person and helping them to let off steam and make amends with the offender. IEIs are typically quick to take the blame for offenses upon themselves in order to show their acceptance and good will towards the other person, and create good attitudes.

IEIs’ speech and voice usually have a certain dramatic affect and depth of feeling, which influence the emotions in the atmosphere; these feelings can be used to generate elation and boisterous laughter. If IEIs prefer, they can also generate and communicate their feelings of sadness and loss. They are adept at communicating depth of feeling. If things seem too quiet and low-key, they may even generate controversy or conflict to liven things up and get people involved once again in a high-spirited atmosphere.

The IEI will often say something that sounds very deep and heartfelt only to immediately realize the ridiculousness of what they are saying and make light of it. In this way, the IEI does not induce a formal separation between joking and being serious (like their mirror, the EIE), because they are less premeditated in expression in their natural state.

3. Introverted sensing

IEIs have limited endurance in their awareness of what is going on between sensations and objects in the area around them. They are generally somewhat aware that they are ignoring this area and perceive it as a personal weakness. They will sporadically work on it in order to meet other people’s expectations or achieve something in society. Much of the time, however, they couldn’t care enough to make a concentrated effort, which they find in itself to be tiring and unfulfilling. This often leads to an oscillating cycle of coping methods for competency and total rejection at the onset of exhaustion or criticism.

In these areas IEIs tend to be inflexible and skeptical of outer information, and may become very pedantic about certain things. IEIs will often have extremely picky tastes, and will not try new things when a stimulus that has been enjoyed in the past is available. They tend to be unaware to the sensations that are occurring in their body, and thus try to create a consistent, simple way of dealing with this area to minimize the attention they must give to it. They may enjoy good food, but will typically not know when to stop, or, to the other extreme, may not realize when they are hungry.

It is not infrequent for IEIs to have a messy living space, although this simply may reflect the organizational style they prefer most. They may sporadically organize or try to add style, then tire of it or forget and leave a project half-finished. The state of things is either generally ignored or perceived in some distant part of the mind as a self-depreciating nag.
4. Extroverted logic

IEIs have limited endurance in awareness concerning methods to achieve their purposes without wasting any energy or producing unwanted side effects. This creates a feeling of frustration and inadequacy. They do not value the importance of this area, and it can lead to painful consequences.

Taking care of intensely detailed work that is required to reach their goals, like managing finance or being pragmatic in business ventures, will exhaust their sense of concentration and they will find it frustrating as they continually encounter mistakes and things they had forgotten about or inadvertently ignored.

IEIs dislike having the details of the process–rote facts and statistics–thrown at them, giving more weight to an intuitive understanding of how the events within the process culminate inevitably in a certain result. They will distrust and dislike bossy people, and will avoid people who will assign them routine work like chores. They will even avoid their friends and family when they expect that they will be assigned such work, and do not enjoy fulfilling daily chores.

They dislike rote routine and do not give much attention to what others may view as the practical aspects of life. They may seem oblivious to objective reality, lost in their “dreams.” This causes them to periodically lose track of their belongings, making them feel rather inadequate. IEIs will be overly stressed or even counter-productive in an atmosphere where speedy organization and efficiency are forced apon them.

5. Extroverted sensing

IEIs have little natural or automatic awareness concerning their ability to make use of their willpower or position and exercise their will in opposition to others. Such a task is bothersome and they appreciate someone taking up the role for them and executing it well.

IEIs are awed in the face of someone adept at using their willpower or position and exercising their will in opposition to others. IEIs are drawn to people who exude this self-confidence and personal presence; just being with them is enlivening. These are the people who dream big dreams and are capable of achieving them, who aren’t fazed by the obstacles that so often stand in the IEI’s path.

The IEIs’ own world is one of indecision and hesitation when it comes to taking action and striking out on their own. What best removes this hesitation is when someone else really wants them to do something. The IEI then relies on the other person’s strong desire to mobilize them to action, as if the force of their desire were their own.
6. Introverted logic

IEIs seek help understanding and perceiving objective measurements and correlations between data within a system, but past a certain point such judgment is seen as overkill. IEIs do not tend to store such information themselves, but they appreciate this trait in others. They may doubt their objectivity in such areas of understanding, and desire a partner who is strong and responsive in this function to ensure certainty.

They have a secret desire to truly understand things, but will fall short without an outer reference to keep them on the same page. Without a partner who can provide motivation and logical structural reference, they may slide off the edge of the map, lost in their dreams and out of touch with reality.

IEIs are aware of their own disorganization with logical constructs and can sometimes feel as though they do not know what to do about it. Sometimes a simple routine way of categorizing ideas and their logical correlations can do wonders for IEIs, as long as they still feel independent and free to explore the subject matter creatively.

7. Extroverted intuition

An IEI is not as likely to give as much weight to external patterns and connections, mostly because they can easily see the crux of things through their Symbol t.gif. While an Symbol i.gif type may go from point A to point C, and so on, the IEI will quickly observe a situation and gain an underlying understanding that they continually develop until they have reached the essence of things. They are adept at coming up with possibilites regarding situations but consider these thoughts as of lesser importance.
8. Introverted ethics

An IEI is adept at understanding his/her own disposition towards others and their own general emotional state. Their primary focus, however, isn’t on what subjective ties they have, but rather, the energy flow that is going on with and around them. The IEI can easily assess the status of a relationship between himself and someone else, but generally only does so if necessary. For the most part, they view static emotional judgments as limiting to the emotional dynamics of a situation. However, they deeply value their close personal bonds with others and will make a large effort to maintain these bonds.

IEIs can get strong physical sensations of their own internal feelings which pressures them into retreating to their personal boundaries. These sensations range from minor head pains to stomach aches and take place especially when they fall behind due to external pressures. When they do withdraw, they can take many hours reflecting over the problems stressing them, and as a result IEIs can remain reclusive. They can even feel like they’re in a nightmare when they cannot resolve the things that are plaguing their minds.
Common social roles

    The poet who becomes enamored of expressing his idiosyncratic vision of life, taking no interest in the quotidian affairs of man.

    The survivor who, by maintaining good relations with all factions simultaneously, always survives political or corporate upheavals.

    The good-natured tag-along who likes to be attached to groups and provides constant comic relief.

IEI subtypes
Intuitive subtype Ni-INFp (Ni-IEI)
Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov

Appearance

The intuitive subtype appears as a calm, tactful, languid and diffident individual. He seems torn from reality, inert and poorly adapted to life. However, such impressions are erroneous, for he possesses a fine intuition, which aids him in establishing useful connections and obtaining support from influential people. Externally he seems serene, but in his heart he is sentimentally predisposed, has bouts of moodiness and melancholy, and regrets his mistakes and misfortunes for a long time. His mimicry is somewhat monotonous, often shows an expression of light amazement or full interest in his conversation partner. His gaze is dreamy and pensive, slightly strained, with a bit of luster, often expressing melancholy, attentiveness, or sardonic irony. His speech is measured, smooth, and intimately heart-felt. On his face there is almost constantly a polite half-smile that easily predisposes towards trust. Gestures are modest, timid, undemonstrative. Gait is unhurried and smooth.

Character

Soft and considerate person. In his heart he is a dreamer and a romantic. Has figurative, associative memory, and can recall experiences from the past down to the smallest detail. Somewhat unsure in himself, inclined to doubt and hesitate in cases he has to speak or act decisively. He does not like to hurry, can delay carrying out tasks and finding solutions to problems to an indefinite period of time. Reminiscing about the past, he recalls all the mistakes and mishaps, then extracts from them lessons for the future. Thanks to a strong intuition sees short-term prospects of affairs and relations, but because of the tendency to idealize everything may also overestimate them. Under any circumstances does not lose hope that in future everything will turn out for the better than in the present situation.

Usually does not aspire to leadership and finds it difficult and tiring to handle organizational functions. Gravitates more towards intellectual sphere of activity than towards hands-on management and production. Dislikes routine, monotony, stereotypes, conventionality, strict order, having to follow rules and regulations. Likes to talk about various unconventional and mysterious phenomena, seeks new experiences, feels attracted to interesting and unusual people. Willingly accepts and promotes unordinary ideas and innovative approaches, but shows caution in new ventures; in such cases prefers to yield initiative to those who are more assertive and energetic. However, if necessary, exhibits outstanding diplomatic skills, achieving success where others, more straightforward and impatient partners who do not attribute much value to flexibility in relationships, would usually give up. Does not know which of the two disputants he should favor, therefore, will try to reconcile them.

In work can become distracted by irrelevant details, and thus run out of time to accomplish the more important tasks. In his apartment or at his workplace may allow for creative mess and disorganization. Being practical, thrifty, and calculating is not in his nature, due to which he misses some major opportunities. Respects strong, influential people. Needs moral, physical, and material support. Due to absentmindedness sometimes forgets to fulfill his promises, but then does his best to make up and make amends.

Sensitive and attentive to other people, tries to maintain even relations with everyone. Exhibits tolerance towards the flaws and weaknesses of others. Does not break immediately those relationships that have been exhausted for he grows used to people. Knows how to patiently wait and how to adapt to any circumstances. For the sake of good relations with those close to him, tries to meet their requirements for him, to develop practical skills, to perform at school and work, and to fulfill his family responsibilities.
Description by Victor Gulenko

Usually looks calm, dreamy, and contemplative. His facial expression is typically interrogative. Line of behavior is frequently passive. Romantic spirit, lives in the world of illusions and tries to avoid the negative. Optimistic. As a rule, avoids conflict situations and supports compromise. Constrained in the way he dresses. Elegant and refined. Can fulfill functions of staff assistant in presence of a “strong hand”, take up work in psychology and psychotherapy.
Ethical subtype Fe-INFp (Fe-IEI)
Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov

Appearance

The ethical subtype makes an impression of a soft, charming and emotional person. Usually looks inspired and optimistic. Possess a fine sense of humor. May talk of his problems and failures with a smile. Ironic, crafty, unpredictable and inconsistent in behavior and conversation. Creates original contrasts, can unexpectedly jab at someone and then just as quickly embrace and kiss his conversation partner. Artistic and charming; unconstrained in conversation, occasionally even with shades of familiarity and impudence. Knows how to bridge the distance. Considerate, tactful, and caring; at times he is simply charming, so great is his talent at positively predisposing others to himself and being liked. Talented at persuasion: states requests in such a manner that it is difficult to refuse them. His movements are refined ; his gait is graceful, hasty. Speech is full of emotion, rich with shades, sometimes melodious.

Character

Emotional and charming, easily and naturally comes into contact with unfamiliar people, predisposing them towards trust with his warmth and sincerity. Able to cheer others up, make them laugh with his unusual antics and utterances. Well versed in feelings and moods of people, able to establish and maintain useful contacts for reaching his goals and to find best suited candidates for implementation of the conceived. To each person he is able to find an individual approach. Often puts his requests in such a form that it is difficult to turn him down. Independent by nature, impulsive, unpredictable in his actions; given to impromptu acts and improvisations. Unobtrusive with his feelings - if he does not see reciprocity, he will distance. Consults with others before making important decisions, though does not always follow their advice.

Elegant, skillful in becoming liked, readily gives out compliments. Enjoys being at the center of the attention. Figuratively and with a refined sense of humor retells stories of his experiences. Enjoys and knows how to reconcile those who are arguing. Sometimes he is given to irony and ridicule, but says even unpleasant things as if in jest and with a smile.

Very much in need of praise and encouragement. Sensitive of criticism of his work or investing effort that has not been appreciated; this lowers his productivity. While if he is praised in advance, this encourages him to strive to overcome difficulties and aid him in gaining confidence. In his heart he is very vulnerable and acutely aware of his failures. Internally contradictory, prone to abrupt mood swings: from laughter to tears and in reverse. Easy lights up with a new idea, but can quickly lose interest if it requires a lot of patience and effort for realization. Passionately tries to prove his correctness; accepts advice only after he has calmed down, and even then only until the next emotional outburst. Needs support of a strong-willed, capable, energetic person.

Somewhat distrustful and suggestible. Readily shares his problems with others, seeking their sympathy, understanding, and support. Inclined to demonstrate his physical or personal sufferings. Sensing danger, he transmits his apprehensive and restless mood to those around him. Nonchalant and imperturbable, but this is only a tactic that allows him to make a good impression. Sometimes he evokes awe and admiration in others by demonstrating fearlessness in dangerous situations. His composed serene state is transmitted onto others, allowing them to distance from their everyday worries and problems.

Graceful in his movements, shows refinement, good manners, dresses tastefully. Fastidious in his household. Possesses an aesthetic taste, appreciates ornaments and decorations. Enjoys comfort. Cares about his own appearance as well as appearance of others. Wasteful and uneconomical; can purchase needless things; dislikes those who are frugal over minor purchases. Does not attach much value to material things, and thus can be careless with them. Borrowing or lending something, may forget about it for a long time.
Description by Victor Gulenko

Entices, flatters, is charming and communicable. If he sees negative emotions in his environment, he will try to arrange things such that people will calm down. Mobilizes well in dangerous situations. Loves to be in the center of attention and to dramatize what is happening. Possesses a sense of humor. Easily manipulates with intonation and voice. Can work successfully as a journalist. He finds it easy to entice a person to start talking. Outwardly may appear extravagant, frequently adopts a bohemian, bright look.
