
Wikisocion LIE composite

Logical Intuitive Extratim, LIE, Te Ni or archetype Jack London.

1. Te Extraverted Logic

LIEs naturally accumulate knowledge as per factual information from books and other second-hand sources in matters they find useful, either because it’s their professional field, or something they find interesting and of potential use in the future. In order to function at optimal level, they feel the need to know how their external environment works, in order to make sense of it and control it, or be one step ahead of it. That means, for instance, a need to have at least a basic general understanding of the broader workings of any structure they are in (as a country, company, or organization) rather than just carry out whatever specific task they have been assigned. That gives LIEs a basic confidence on being well-informed in the subjects they decided to be informed about. That, coupled with an inclination to correct any errors in their environment (so that it makes sense and is efficient), leads to a behavior that can be described as “know-it-all”, that is, voicing their knowledge and correcting erroneous remarks made by others, often seen as arrogance on the part of LIEs.

LIEs evaluate external reality - work activities, world events, finances, procedures, personal relationships, conversations - from the point of view of factual accuracy and “making sense” and efficiency. It leads to an inclination to be proactive in increasing the efficiency and reasonableness of the external world, as well as a sense of self-worth connected to being involved and productive in activities seen as useful, profitable, or that increase one’s knowledge base. To give out information that they know not to be factually accurate is disturbing to LIEs and avoided as much as possible. The LIE’s ideal world of communication is one of blatant factual truth, no compromise made for goals to be achieved or for possible hurt feelings.

To say “no, that’s not correct” or “that’s not true” to correct others’ statements, volunteering knowledge in order to correct them; and saying “this way of doing things is inefficient, let’s improve it”; generally offering information that can be applied to productive purposes - these are marks of the LIE’s drives. Not to be able to act on them has a negative effect on their sense of usefulness and self-worth.

LIEs’s preferred mode of action - when they feel at their best - is when able to be very active, and proactive, in ways they find to be useful, productive, logical, and profitable in the longer term. Conversely, periods where they are not sure of the actions to take tend to lead them into paralysis and depression.
2. Ni Introverted Intuition

Whenever occupied with a task, LIEs are already thinking ahead. Their attention tends to be less focused on their immediate surroundings and the specific details of an activity, than on their longer-term implications, consequences, and usefulness. More present-focused people may see that as laziness: they are not really dedicated to doing something immediately because they are already realizing that it may be pointless in the longer term, so why even do it. They very easily focus their minds in following sequential cause-and-effect scenarios and on their personal senses of vision, but always in the service of actions towards achieving their goals, specifically as to the optimal timing for taking specific actions. The other side of the coin is an inclination to think too much of the consequences and of timing of decisions, rather than actually act on them, although to a lesser extent than in the case of Ni dominants. Similarly, LIEs are concerned with covering all possible long-term outcomes, and will often make a suggestion to do something “just in case”. This sometimes leads them to do what is useful only theoretically, and not actually.

3. Fe Extraverted Ethics

LIEs make an effort to adapt to the prevailing emotional atmosphere, especially in group situations, and try to promote a positive emotional environment, as in making positive or witty remarks, in the presence of individuals they are already somewhat acquainted with and appreciate; or in purely professional meetings or short-lived social encounters, they are aware of the need to put up a friendly and polite facade. Such efforts, however, are normally low-key and of short duration; it is difficult for them to display emotions more complex or intense with any enthusiasm. They are essentially unable to participate in a group atmosphere where intense emotional expression, as in loud laughing and mutual jokes, are prevailing, for any extended period of time. LIEs make an effort to be aware of the need not to disrupt the prevailing emotional atmosphere, but they do not succeed for any length of time if that would clash with their inner emotional state and private feelings about the other persons present. A typical example is the person who, in a group of people exchanging pleasantries and casual conversation, will occasionally correct erroneous statements made by others, in a way that can be perceived as annoying, despite otherwise making an effort to abide by the prevailing emotional atmosphere.

LIEs are aware of the need for polite conversation and small talk; however, they inevitably, usually without noticing, end up turning the “small talk” into an exchange of information on serious topics. LIEs have extreme difficulty with the concept of conversation just for the sake of conversation where the factual accuracy of statements exchanged is of lesser importance. A casual remark made by someone else, with the sole purpose of keeping conversation going, may be met by a counter-argument by the LIE, which the person may regard as a sign of emotional hostility, when the sole purpose of the LIE was to comment on that specific remark. LIEs usually must exercise self-discipline to avoid this kind of misunderstandings.
4. Si Introverted Sensing

LIEs have the view that Si aspects are of less importance than others for achieving their goals. They put a low priority on the physical, short-distance, here-and-now in relation to longer-distance and longer-term considerations. A typical manifestation is a lack of concern for small aesthetic details, since a greater focus is given on the opinion that, in the longer term, taking care of them is a never-ending exercise. This is also manifested in a relative lack of awareness of the immediate surroundings, as in noticing where objects may be if they don’t have to deal with them particularly, and of their own physical sensations.

LIEs can accept that, for professional or social goals, they may have to take great care of aesthetic details in their immediate environment; but that will always be seen as a concession to others or to convention; they will never evaluate others in that regard and will tend to look down on those who are spontaneously very concerned about such matters.

This also leads to an inclination for postponing daily personal chores, which tend to accumulate and haunt the LIE later.

5. Fi Introverted Ethics

LIEs long for close personal relationships where personal and private experiences can be shared easily in an atmosphere of mutual trust, sustained by shared sentiments and ethical beliefs that make external expression of emotions unnecessary. They are inclined to take first steps, but are not confident of their ability to correctly evaluate the existence or status of such a relationship, and therefore are attracted to persons who value clear and unambiguous personal relationships with others and who follow a clear set of ethical principles, which gives them credibility and makes them deserving of trust in the eyes of the LIEs.

LIEs tend not to consider whether people are friends or enemies or whether they feel good will or ill will towards them. Instead, they will be inclined to act right from the start as if the other person were a friend or an enemy based on their prior knowledge of what the person does. This makes it possible to mistake a friend for an enemy and vice versa. Only gradually do LIEs come to recognize what feelings others have for them, and there is always an element of doubt unless others express those feelings verbally and unambiguously and act in a way that clearly matches their stated feelings, over a sufficient period of time. LIEs are easily made insecure about the status of personal relationships and need frequent reassurance that the other person’s feelings have not changed.

LIEs are sheepish about expressing their personal feelings about people (“I find you really interesting” or “I like you a lot”), but respond very well to these statements, as if they were unexpected treats. However, they will also consider whether the person’s statements make sense or not: LIEs are far more confident evaluating other persons with Fi than with Fi.
6. Se Extraverted Sensing

LIEs actively pursue their external goals, to the sacrifice of their immediate considerations of comfort, but regularly experience periods of procrastination where they need prodding, a strong push, or forceful support from others to continue onward in the direction they have chosen.

LIEs admire people who do not back off from direct personal confrontations and who stand their ground; they aim at doing that and often succeed, but their stronger focus on Ni means that their resolution in this regard is often weakened by thoughts of the possible negative consequences of such confrontations. Likewise, they admire, and try to emulate, persons who are resolute, even pushy towards others, when pursuing their goals. However, they are put off by persons who are overly aggressive and who seem to prefer to use verbal or physical aggression as a replacement of logical or ethical arguments, rather than as a support for them.

The focus of LIEs on Se and Ni means that a strong motivation in their actions is of achievement in the longer term, either of a material or professional nature, most typically financial, over more short-term considerations.

7. Ti Introverted Logic

LIEs understand easily, but are largely indifferent to, discussions that focus on the internal logic of ideas and systems. They perceive such logical systems as largely worthless to their goals and find them completely uninteresting and unproductive.

LIEs are confident in spotting internal logical contradictions in ideas and arguments proposed by others, and in pointing them out; however, they are more likely to point out how such ideas and arguments do not hold if checked against external evidence. They see the internal consistency of a case as of lesser importance than the accuracy of the facts presented with that case.

Likewise, LIEs are far more likely to make a case by arguing facts that support them, rather than how it fits logically from a system or assumptions.
8. Ne Extraverted Intuition

LIEs are fairly good at generating all sorts of ideas during conversations on speculative ideas, but they don’t take such ideas seriously and view the activity as a sort of entertaining exercise lacking in value. It is more natural for LIEs to apply their imagination and vision specifically to those areas where they are trying to achieve something than to “indulge” in thinking about things that have no relation to those areas of interest.

LIEs can appreciate and enjoy discussions and activities connected to exploring as many hidden potentials and possibilities, and alternative scenarios, as possible in ideas, people and objects; but they tend to regard this as less serious and useful than focusing for a longer time on specific ideas and developments.
Common social roles

    The entrepreneur or speculator who is constantly thinking of how to turn everything into money, yet continues to count pennies and make sacrifices even after he or she has become wealthy.

    The job-hopper or independent contractor who is constantly changing jobs or locations in order to progress or out of a fear of stagnation, to the sacrifice of his personal life, which will be settled “some day”.

    The maverick politician or activist who defends positions politically unpalatable to the conventional wisdom of the time, either rising to power when his positions are later seen as correct, or remaining a niche politician with a limited number of followers.

    The know-it-all windbag who has lots of information about many subjects, and helpfully or annoyingly is always ready to share it with those around him, equally ready to correct the erroneous remarks made by anyone else, always with pitiless courtesy.

LIE subtypes
Logical subtype Te-ENTj (Te-LIE)
Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov

Appearance

Makes an impression of a mobile, energetic, action-oriented and strict person. Facial expressions lack in emotionality. Looks directly, at point-blank range, studying his conversation partner, with his gaze focusing for a long time on his conversation partner or on objects in his surroundings. A bit timid and diffident, though tries to hide this. At times, he is overly mistrustful, critical, and excessively categorical. It is difficult to distract him from what he has planned, tries to bring everything he has conceived to completion. Despite his tendency to think and reflect, he is decisive and impulsive in words and in action. Inclined to have longs talks. Seems somewhat uptight and strained in conversation due to his desire to appear self-controlled, composed, serious person with foresight. His apparent slowness suddenly changes to haste and hurriedness. In most cases, his figure looks solid and stocky in built, though somewhat rigid and angular in movements. Tries to hold himself with dignity and confidence. If he jokes, does it with a serious look, smiling only with the corners of his mouth.

Character

Hardworking and alert. Eagerly gets involved in various activities and business that bring concrete results and benefits. Usually well-informed, and tries to be credible and authoritative. Plans everything advance, collects needed information for data driven solutions. Strives for clarity and accuracy in all matters. Pragmatic: will not take up useless and payless work. Leery of new proposals that are not supported by convincing evidence. Cautious in his new endeavors. Prefers testing new ideas in practice, to avoid making mistakes. Being convinced in future benefits of a certain idea, tries to realize it into real life with much enthusiasm and energy.

He is never satisfied with the current events. Always searching for ways of changing, polishing, and improving the existing. Has a critical turn of mind, and an inclination towards polemics. Enjoys developing new projects and promising plans. Separates a given goal into steps, and subsequently carries them out, thus bringing his given goal to its completion. Dislikes being distracted from his work or business, and when others interfere with his focus or try to impose others methods and courses of actions. Quite principled in his views and convictions. It is difficult to persuade him, or convince him otherwise.

Strives towards order, logical and rational sense in everything, though he’s not always able to achieve this. Interested in the worldly value of things. Stimulates other people to activity and work by his own example, as well as by making agreements on mutually beneficial conditions. Poorly tolerates trickery and cunning. Respects people of their word and deed. Not afraid of challenges and obstacles. Interested in testing himself in extreme conditions, in overcoming all hardships and coming through as the winner. Under any circumstances, shows fortitude, tenacity, optimism and endurance.

In matters and issues of principle to him can show firmness and intractability, defending the ideals of fairness and humanism. Negatively refers to unceremoniousness and abuse. Correct and restrained in his statements, tries to create a casual atmosphere in conversation by his democratic attitude and humor. Good storyteller, describes events in all detail. Readily shares his impressions and sensations with people around him. Holds himself with seriousness and dignity, shows good manners, politeness and courtesy. Doesn’t tolerate when he is treated with disrespect, can flare up and lose his temper in such cases.

Likes people who are serious and restrained in communication, in whom he sees solid support in the future. Reliable as a friend, provides real concrete help in difficult situations. Critical towards the mistakes and flaws of others, but delivers his reproofs and rebukes in a soft form, even if he is deeply upset. Poorly discerns feelings of his partner, suspicious, afraid of making a mistake, of making himself look ridiculous. Therefore careful in his emotional expressions and admissions, tries to deliver them in a joking humorous form. Prefers to prove his relation to someone by deeds rather than by words. Strives for solid, durable, stable, and reliable relations.

Feels upsets if he is unsure of his external attractiveness, thus tries to look good, aesthetically pleasant, and appreciates good aesthetic sense and good manners in others. Practical, good at managing his household, knows how to do much with his hands. Cleverly and adeptly solves any household problems that he encounters. A supporter of healthy lifestyle, but visits the doctors with much reluctance. If he happens to fall sick, inclined to use folk and alternative medicines, patiently trying to get better using various health systems. His persistence, inexhaustible optimism, and will to live help him overcome any obstacles on the way to achieving his goals.
Description by Victor Gulenko

Most dynamic of all TIMs. A pioneer in his field of activity. Seems a spontaneous person. Very emotional and impulsive, therefore can be inconsistent in his business. Trusting, due to his carelessness can unintentionally land himself in complicated affairs. Can realize himself in free market activity. Searches for supporters, with whom it is possible to realize his own or shared ideas. If he loses, doesn’t lose his spirit and optimism, but proceeds ahead with his life. Pays little attention to external appearances and health. Outwardly can look somewhat thin, very mobile, if male may have a beard and mustache. It happens that he leads a disorderly, chaotic, unrestrained style of life.
Intuitive subtype Ni-ENTj (Ni-LIE)
Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov

Appearance

The intuitive subtype is pleasant and considerate in dialogue. He can be affectionate and cheerful, possesses a developed sense of humor, often becomes the soul of a company. Inspired, energetic, and optimistic. Mobile, restless, scattered, always in a hurry, aiming to accomplish much in time. Very enterprising, boldly takes risks. It’s hard for him to concentrate on one thing for a long period of time. He has many ideas. Always has several points where he can apply his efforts. Diplomatic and gallant with everyone, especially with women, but can show familiarity at closer acquaintance. Due to his inclination to unceremoniousness, his sense of tact often fails him, and he commits ethical mistakes, which he tries to correct and mend with the help of jokes and his services. Behaves himself simply, uninhibitedly, freely and easily. In conversation sometimes like to touch his conversation partner, to hug, to kiss, to make jokes. His gestures and gait lack ostentatious solidity and seem very natural.

Character

This is a person of action with a developed creative beginning. Has an active practical mind, very curious, and boldly experiments. Often constructs far-reaching but concrete plans. Impulsive, cheerful, enterprising, easily takes initiative in new projects and beginnings. Quickly turns to work, inspiring others to get involved with his own enthusiasm. Bravely tackles implementing new ideas to life, as he sees their prospects well into the future. Brave, resourceful, far-sighted and shrewd. Instantly orients in extreme situations and develops an effective plan of action. If he is not involved in some project or activity, he starts to feel bored and his vitality falls, but usually he is able to quickly find application of his abilities in any activity.

Somewhat scattered, inclined to get distracted by secondary and unimportant things, due to which may put off the main work until later, but after a while returns to it. Impatient by nature, may be careless and negligent with details. Dislikes competing, manifesting selfish interests, demanding his right to something. May cede his positions to more obstinate and insistent partners. For the sake of justice or to defend an idea in which he believes, may sacrifice his own interests.

Fluctuates in choosing which decision to go with, due to which it is easy to talk him out of what he has conceived. Due to internal doubts and contradictions he can be unpredictable in his behavior. With difficulty endures the crash of his hopes, but, with the inherent to his optimism, is not averse to start everything anew, not looking back. Gravitates towards new impressions and changes, often changes his hobbies and interests, tries and tests himself in different spheres of activity and occupations. A romantic at heart, enjoys travel, sharp and thrilling impressions, sometimes tests and risks with his fate. Faithful in relations, but not averse to flirting. His personal life is often rather complicated and changeable.

Emotional, fidgety, restless. Tries to do everything in time and feels very worried when he sees that he cannot accomplish everything by the deadlines. He is often in a hurry himself, and hurries and urges others. Negatively refers to those who are lazy, who seek convenience and enjoyment. In conversations, he is lively and welcoming. Seems sincere, original, straightforward, and predisposing towards trust. Attentive towards other people, delves into their problems, gives advice, offers his services, tries to encourage them, make them laugh with jokes. If in the interests of the work or business he finds it necessary to put pressure on other people, tries to do it in inoffensive form, although he may be too direct and pushy. Sometimes his sense of tact fails, and he can inadvertently offend his conversation partner, but then he tries to fix the situation immediately or very soon. He is docile in nature: it’s difficult to pick a quarrel with him.

Interested in various unsolved and unexplored phenomena. Tries to comprehend the essence of various events and manifestations. Reflects and thinks over scientific, moral, and philosophical questions. In his soul he is somewhat suspicious and superstitious. At home undemanding, can do with very little. Loves children and animals. Pays little attention to his appearance. Wanting to be loved not for his appearance, but for his inner qualities. In need of a person who can keep him from committing rash actions.
Description by Victor Gulenko

Seems a calm and balanced person who leads an orderly lifestyle. Well perceptive of good opportunities. Calmly selects which idea it’s best to put into action. Always finds the most optimal and advantageous solution, that will lead to the greatest benefit. Often this is a kind of natural scientist, tester and experimenter, who works with both his mind and his hands. Can take up natural and physical sciences or painting, in everything he tries to bring things to completion. Excellent game technician, experimenter. Gets along well with children, easily getting them involved by interesting activities. Outwardly looks somewhat restrained, usually has a more solid and stocky built than the logical subtype. Dresses well and looks after his health.
