
Wikisocion LSI composite

Logical Sensing Introtim, LSI, Ti Se or archetype Maxim Gorky.

1. Ti Introverted Logic

LSIs have a strong command of how various systems, structures, and hierarchies around them work, and always have a clear idea of how to implement them and improve them. LSIs quickly and easily determine what is correct and incorrect according to the systems they are familiar with.

LSIs tend to logically analyze just about everything — even close relationships. LSIs view their partners and other members of their household as part of a system which should have a certain structure and order to it. Everything in this system should run like clockwork — scheduling, daily routines, responsibilities in the relationship, and household management.

LSIs seek to attain an important role in an important system and to maintain and perfect it — often becoming the guardian or watchdog of the system.

LSIs do not often think about the ethics of the systems they maintain. Instead, they discuss the ethics of other systems using the language and customs of their own systems as truth, and make value judgments accordingly.
2. Se Extraverted Sensing

LSIs prefer to apply their clear, logical thinking to forcibly affect how the real world is organized, rather than simply producing conjectures or thought exercises that have no material application. LSIs prefer to work with systems of “real” things — material assets, organizations, management, and production — and to perfect their structure and organization (Ti). When they are certain they are right, LSIs can act decisively to enforce rules, and, if necessary, to punish violators, in order to protect the integrity of the system.

LSIs handle high-pressure situations well and can maneuver skillfully around obstacles to achieve their goals. They cannot be intimidated easily by displays of force or aggression, but follow closely the balance of power and make sure they are in the best position.

3. Fi Introverted Ethics

In the company of people the LSI smiles and acts like a good friend engaged in easy conversations, not without humor. They tend to mechanistically approach matters of wooing and relationship-building.

The LSI often has trouble differentiating strong relationships from weak relationships. Often he will find himself unsure of his own opinion of the closeness of a relationship. This uncertainty manifests itself in the LSI as maintaining a generally friendly atmosphere with another person even if they are in conflict over a problem. Only when they are sure that they have been intentionally wronged by another will they publicly express negative sentiments toward that person.
4. Ne Extraverted Intuition

LSIs do not tolerate ambiguity, and so dislike abstract ideals that are not directly based on their experience. They almost invariably focus on the worst-case scenario whenever they are forced to be in an ambiguous situation. If the situation is in the future, they will expend much effort to be 100% prepared. They also tend to be very suspicious of others’ intentions, being highly aware that every person is ultimately motivated by self-interest.

They set clearly achievable goals, which they often reach. Failure to meet these goals causes the LSI to express anger and lose control of his emotions in the form of a seemingly childish tantrum.

The LSI has a clearly defined set of rules that he must adhere to. Only through learning can the LSI change, and grow to understand how something could work differently than the way he imagines it in the moment.

5. Fe Extraverted Ethics

Being entrenched in logical, systematic thinking processes, LSIs need others to create an emotionally inclusive atmosphere where they know they are accepted and liked. Left to themselves, they have almost no way of establishing an emotional connection with others other than through formal methods that often fail to work. LSIs can organize a situation where emotional bonding might occur, but they are almost unable to create the bonding themselves; they need others to fill the situation with feeling, laughter, and fun.

Since they devote themselves so completely to whatever they do, LSIs tend to build up a lot of emotional tension, which can only be released when somebody gives them a vivid reminder that there is more to life than their responsibilities.

LSIs respect and admire people who are deeply passionate about things and care enough about them to instill their attitudes in others and try to get them involved. They can forgive a little unruliness, impulsivity, and disorderliness for the emotional value such people give them. LSIs tend to suffer from a deficit of passion and feel emotionally connected to the world mainly when they are around lively and emotional people.
6. Ni Introverted Intuition

LSIs often keep dense notes to remind them of their future engagements, as well as directions as to how to do complex tasks. Lateness and incorrectness are almost taboo for the LSI, and to err in these ways can make the LSI unhappy with whoever has transgressed, even with themselves.

LSIs enjoy talking about probable developments in the areas they are interested in and what to do in the case of a certain scenario. This makes them feel adequately prepared for possible risks and dangers, which they otherwise tend to forget about. They also enjoy reflecting on the meaning of their experiences, wishing that others will understand and share their introspective thoughts on life.

7. Te Extraverted Logic

When in love, the LSI will disregard behaviors that he feels are normal because the partner fulfills those obligations. This is especially apparent when the LSI stops work because there is enough money in the household without the LSIs income.

LSIs are annoyed by the idea of continuously updating their core beliefs and systems with new factual information. To the LSI, the truth is the truth, and anyone who brings up real-life examples that, on the surface, seem to contradict the closely held ideas of the LSI, is viewed as an antagonist who must be quelled.

While an LSI can easily understand isolated factual logic, he greatly prefers to sift through such material in an effort to extract the underlying systematic principles being taught, the information the LSI views as being “the point.” Once the core principle has been absorbed, extraneous factual information is often discarded, a habit which, when taken too far, can sometimes lead to LSIs being unable to back up their beliefs with any real-world examples. Sometimes LSIs will see the wisdom in acquiring this kind of supporting evidence, but their tendency is to pick and choose only those examples that support their positions.

When exposed to too much unfocused Te information, the LSI tends to shut down, not seeing a reason to pay attention to isolated facts that may or may not possess any deeper meaning.

Another negative consequence of this function is that some, not all, LSIs will quickly dismiss any factual information that does not conform to their prime understanding of things. This can lead to unpleasant consequences - even incarceration, if the LSI chooses to ignore laws that do not suit his idea of what is and is not correct.

On a positive note, because LSIs are generally not concerned with constantly referencing historic examples and in citing literature or current events, they often possess a clarity of thought that allows them to swiftly pinpoint and expose even the smallest flaws in others’ thinking.
8. Si Introverted Sensing

Acts as if matters of personal appearance and health are very important to him or her, at times talks of it, though just as a comment not requiring feedback.

When not focused on the forceful, rigid energy of his Se creative function, the LSI gives a great deal of attention to his inner physical state, to his sense of balance and comfort. He may possess a wide range of antidotes and curatives in the event of illness, and he may have somewhat strong preferences for the textures and colors of his clothing, or for the taste and freshness of his food. Physical discomfort may sour the LSI’s mood and send him into a state of grumpiness and irritation.

However, when the time arises for the LSI to mobilize into action, his concern over his physical comfort is cast aside in favor of his creative function. Those still concerned with physical harmony at such times are viewed as lazy by the LSI.
Common social roles

    The policeman or referee who keeps a sharp eye on how well people are adhering to the rules and takes it upon himself to correct or punish deviants.

    The career bureaucrat or administrator who rises through the ranks of traditional administrative structures (government organs, large corporations, and other large, hierarchical structures), carefully performing his duties and winning in the long run.

    The rational artist who sees music, film, or visual art as a language to be deciphered.

    The cult devotee who is swayed by the rhetoric of visionaries, and becomes devoted to executing their plans.

    The logistics analyst who rigorously but realistically devises the optimal operating procedure for any given task.

LSI subtypes
Logical subtype Ti-ISTj (Ti-LSI)
Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov

Appearance

The logical subtype is self-assured, calm, restrained, correct and impenetrable. At times he may seem arrogant. Sufficiently kind, imperturbable, and unemotional. Very polite and attentive to details in conversation, likes to specify and clarify everything, but sometimes becomes too focused on details that are nonessential to others. Unhurried, perhaps even slow. Likes receiving exhaustively comprehensive and thorough information to his inquiries. Dislikes ambiguity. Internally, he is quite collected. Never loses his spirit and sense of perseverance. Tries to encourage those who are in need of support. Has a direct, motionless gaze that seems to look right through and not at his conversation partner. His movements are measured but constrained; there is a tendency to shuffle his feet against the floor when walking. When he turns, he does so with his entire body such that it sometimes seems like his neck is fixed to his shoulders; doesn’t like to turn his head.

Character

A sober realist who knows how to find a way out of difficult situations. Stoic: overcomes difficulties without complaining. Dislikes running too much ahead and is able to patiently wait for the outcome. It is difficult to convince him to change his stances. He is uncompromising in matters that he considers to be important. Prefers to prepare for everything in advance since he doesn’t like improvising; feels uncomfortable with change and instability. Somewhat contradictory and given to internal doubts, but ultimately does not let his internal vacillations undermine his main orientations. Knows how to consistently and persistently overcome all obstacles. Prefers to implement his knowledge into practice. Tries to stabilize any situation. Bravely endures through misfortunes and adversity while not losing his heart and spirit.

Lacks sufficient flexibility in dealing with people and is poor at taking their individual abilities into account. Does not trust those who are light-headed and light-hearted because he is not sure of whether their feelings are trustworthy. Tolerant of defects of those who are close to him; serves as a reliable support for them. Quickly grows tired of interacting with people; quite tolerant of solitude. Restrained and unobtrusive. The objective matters for him are more important than personal relationships and feelings. Usually a private person who does not readily share his experiences with outsiders. Doesn’t demonstrate what he is feeling: hunger, fear, pain, etc. Tries not to burden others with himself; relies on the help of close people only in extreme cases.

He loves precision and concreteness in everything. Consistent and thorough in his activities and decisions. Careful and thorough in carrying out his tasks. Intolerant of slackness and irresponsibility from others. Follows through his assignments to their completion. Trusts only in official sources of information. A good researcher of narrow issues. Delves into all the details without dismissing and losing sight of anything minor. Accurately maintains records, likes to clarify facts, readily informs those who turn to him for advice about any regulations, about which he is usually informed. In an administrative position, he can establish a clear work regimen, discipline, and order. As a manger, he most often adheres to a chain of command. Very operative and conscientious, possesses a sense of duty. Demanding of himself and others. Tries to be even and reasonable, not go to extremes or fall into illusions.

Modest and unpretentious in his household. Tends to be conservative in his views and habits. If he finds his work interesting and inspirational, may give it his preference while neglecting his personal needs, may see the main purpose of his life in his work. Attentive and friendly companion who knows how to patiently listen and give useful advice.
Description by Victor Gulenko

The most rational logical type of all. Very constructive. Strives towards organizational hierarchy, can excessively organize everyone else around him. Himself is meticulous with his work and brings everything to its completion. Does not miss any details. Poorly tolerates chaos and confusion. Shows little dynamicity, is somewhat monotonous in his life. Outwardly seems strict, unfazed, composed and restrained. In work situations he is official even with those who are close to him, and even manifests barrack style of behavior. Conservative in clothing, his clothes are often strict, in dark tones, and resemble a uniform.
Sensory subtype Se-ISTj (Se-LSI)
Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov

Appearance

The sensory subtype appears more restless in behavior and internally emotional than the logical subtype. May seem somewhat restrained yet also obstinate and stubborn in his views, willing to enter conflicts when his opinions are not honored. Self-controlled and impersonal in his demeanor. Dislikes objections and lengthy explanations. Often watches the actions of others in order to try to assist them or to point out their mistakes. Sometimes in indignation he makes reprimanding remarks, other times he simply completes the task himself or tries to help another person do it better. Flaring up, he can become unduly sharp and absolutist in his statements. Occasionally he tries to amend the situation and smiles with kindness and charm. He walks at a rapid pace, placing his feet as if he is “stamping” the ground. Makes an impression of a well-coordinated and active person. Dresses conservatively, but aims for an aesthetically pleasant, even stylish, appearance. In conversation, he attempts to get closer to his partner but doesn’t make direct contact. Not inclined to overly sensitive, affectionate, and permissive treatment.

Character

He is persistent in achieving his goals. Orients quickly in extreme situations, displaying considerable willpower, endurance, and practical resourcefulness. Able to protect the interests of his project or business with energy and obstinacy in various situations. Usually confident in his opinions, which he bases on facts and his experience. Sometimes manifests excessive obstinacy and intractability. Dislikes being objected to or when someone else tries to impose their will or working methods on him. Inquisitive, accumulates useful information. Often has interests in areas of morality, art, and legislation. Refers to novel and differing points of view with distrust and suspicion, since it is quite difficult for him to change his positions and way of thinking.

Can apply pressure on his subordinates if he is in a leadership position, forcing them to work conscientiously; inclined to “tighten the screws” giving instructions in imperative intonation; will check if his orders have been carried out. If his arguments are not taken under consideration, may flare up and try to force others to do everything as it should be done. Internally disapproves of violations of established regulations. Assesses and judges work by the difficulties and challenges that were overcome during its implementation. Applies the same requirements to everyone without taking individual abilities and circumstances into account.

From time to time needs an emotional discharge to alleviate his inner tensions. In such cases does not hide his emotions and waits for reciprocal sincerity from his partner. Finds it difficult to attain inner balance. At times he loses his restraint and with an outburst can undermine previously established relationships. He is not always able to maintain stable and friendly relations with other people due to his intransigence and straightforwardness of his views and opinions. Despite this, he is usually quite hardy and enduring, both on emotional and physical level.

Rarely talks about his own feelings and personal affairs; and if he does, he speaks about such subjects to very few people. Does not delve deeply into the personal lives of other people, except may be out of politeness. Considers it his duty to help other people in difficult moments; in such cases he shows attentiveness and sympathy and tries to provide the necessary service. Poorly discerns how other people relate to him; due to this it is inclined to doubt their sincerity, or, conversely, can mistake his own desire to be loved for actual love. Prone to harboring ill-founded suspicions.

Hardworking, takes on many tasks and chores thinking that he can do them better than others. Dedicated to taking care of his loved ones and does so selflessly feeling responsible for their well-being. Tries to provide everything that is needed for his household. Watches for cleanliness and order; strives for aesthetics in appearance and his everyday life. Inclined to create comfort, but dislikes excesses. Feels irritated when others touch his things or do something without his permission.
Description by Victor Gulenko

Gusty and impulsive. Doesn’t always follow the same order and organization that he requires of others, meanwhile criticizing those who disrupt this order. Seems courteous and communicable at a distance, but in closer quarters can prove to be intolerant. If provoked, can respond by aggression. Strives towards leadership, but is best at managing smaller groups. Outwardly appears strong. Male representatives often have facial hair and prefer a free style in their clothing.
