
Wikisocion SEE composite

Sensing Ethical Extratim, SEE, Se Fi or archetype Napoleon I.

SEEs have a high awareness of their social surroundings and of the social influence or “weight” of different people. They are naturals at concentrating social attention on themselves or on anyone else they bring into the limelight. They rarely hesitate to take action in social situations.

SEE has a very sharp understanding of people’s attitude towards his suggestions, as well as their mood in general. The primary method of implementation for the SEE’s goals is changing people’s attitudes to be more in line with his own towards a certain objective.
1. Se Extraverted Sensing

The SEE is always present in the here and now. An SEE knows exactly which relations he has influence over at the moment, and exactly how much influence he has (i.e. how far can he “push”). If an SEE wants someone that he does not “have”, he can spend lots of time thinking about how to get it. The SEE finds it hard to be content with what he has.

SEEs are quick to notice confrontational behavior. It is very obvious to an SEE when someone is displaying aggression, even in the most subtle passive-aggressive fashion. Confrontational behavior does not phase the SEE, whether his reaction is to respond with confrontation or hostility himself, creating an outwards appearance of indifference and unimpressiveness, or trying to calm down the offender/make them feel guilty. The various means available to the SEE to achieve the above goals are not nearly as important to the SEE as the end.

The SEE is motivated on some level in all of his affairs towards his goal of exclusiveness. He prefers to be in as high of a position of demand and respect as possible. It fills the SEE with joy to be have many different people competing for his attention and affection. Such a scenario reassures the SEE with the fact that he has been doing things right and that his hard work has paid off. Thus the SEE is often found surrounded by a large circle of friends and romantic interests.

An SEE views material objects as well as people in terms of how they can be used to achieve his goals. Upon losing a superficial friendship or a materialistic object, the SEE is sentimental only in terms of how it affects what he is currently striving for. For example, SEE would not see much point in being in the middle of the nowhere by himself with lots of gold and other showy yet useless objects. These things might only be important to him in regards to how they make other people think about him, or how it would indicate his status.

With extroverted sensing as his base, the SEE would much prefers to be a “go getter,” out doing things as opposed to thinking about what he could be doing.
2. Fi Introverted Ethics

An SEE usually knows exactly how to make other people feel a certain way. This ability increases its power dramatically the more time he spends with a person. He can offer genuine, believable praise to an individual he wants to reward, and likewise can make a person very upset and/or ashamed in themselves. However, if an offender changes their ways in favor of the SEEs point of view, the SEE will be quick to reward the offender with praise, and appreciation, treating them like a good friend. Moral ground to an SEE completely depends on the situation and is anything but set in stone (hence the creative function).

“Fake niceness” rarely fools an SEE. The SEE can easily tell whether a person is being genuine or just selfishly trying to fulfill their own needs.

The SEE can easily create sentiments of closeness and kinship, only to completely change these sentiments down the road. An SEE could be hanging out with a person (A) and act like the person’s best friend, yet talk with another friend (B) and show sentiments of extreme distaste towards person ‘A’ in order to gain acceptance with ‘B’. Sometimes if person ‘A’ and ‘B’ are together at a social function, the SEE will either have to pick sides or can treat both relations with acceptance and feelings of kinship. This can cause quite a bit of confusion in regards to the SEE’s “true loyalties.” The SEE prefers to maintain the respect and appreciation of his relations if at all possible. He knows that if he has an ally in many different groups, it will be harder for his enemies in said groups to act against him for fear of retribution from his other allies.

An SEE has the ability show up in a group of strangers and act like a long lost friend, gaining acceptance and trust of the group very quickly. He can quickly charm this group with his well-bred manners, genuine displays of like/dislike, and sometimes risky humor. When the SEE leaves, he can find out through his inside sources that he was the “talk of the town” after he left, much to the delight of the SEE.

3. Ne Extraverted Intuition

SEE much prefers physical, tangible goals as opposed to abstract ideas. He appreciates those who are good at thinking about things to do, new ways to do things, and especially a unique activities to draw people together. However, the SEE does not hold these abilities in high regard in and of themselves, but only to the degree to which these ideas and strategies can be implemented to serve his ego block.

Distress associated with this function accounts for the SEE’s preference to have his pursuits be visible, close, available, and within the reach of his influence. An SEE prefers to get the things he wants immediately and without compromose using his talents of willpower and interpersonal influence. An SEE finds it difficult to give up on a goal unless clear victory or defeat is at hand. He usually will not give up on a friendship, goal, or romantic relationship until he knows beyond a shadow of a doubt (preferably through “in person” experience) that there is no way possible to resurrect the situation in face of his losses.

Not much value is placed on simply “getting your feet wet,” starting new projects, or trying new things just “for the sake of it.” He much more prefers to think in terms of the long term gains of his actions.

When it comes to achieving a goal, the SEE prefers to be equipped for to deal with any problems that might arise and handle them as they come. This is much more natural to him than planning for and expecting specific possible difficulties or outcomes. This is based in the SEE’s “try it out, do your best, and hope for the best” outlook on things.

SEEs are generally cautious and mistrustful of new ideas and behavior styles that they have not seen, heard of, or experienced before. When people act in strange, unseen ways, they often don’t know what the person’s true intentions are and may suspect that the other person is trying to trick them or play a joke on them. SEEs need to see how other people react to the person and his new information, views, or behavior in order to make a proper assessment.

SEE can become very upset when people are late for unclear reasons and behave in other independent and unpredictable ways. This gives them the feeling of hanging in the air and general uncertainty about the future. Being action oriented people, this is difficult to bear.
4. Ti Introverted Logic

The SEE hates when other people infer or remind him that he’s not doing what he “should be doing.” This is in complete opposite to his preference of following his whims and doing what he wants when he wants it, with as little structure as possible.

They have trouble focusing on systematic decision making, sometimes leading to occasional large mistakes (e.g. an unnecessary, expensive purchase) that was not thought through. Such mistakes lead to shame, guilt, and disappointment within the SEE, although he does not broadcast these sentiments to many. SEE doesn’t like having to weight out pros and cons or make the “right” or “proper” decision.

In regards to unsubstantiated, theoretical knowledge, the SEE can either accept the unproven parts in good faith, or he’ll completely reject it as foolish, unnecessary, and unimportant.

The SEE can be afraid to make discussion about fields heavy in systematic knowledge, doubting his ability to convey such thoughts in a clear, composed, and valued manner.

5. Ni Introverted Intuition

Being as the SEE is more of a day-to-day, moment to moment type of person, they can suffer great difficulty regarding the long term consequences of their actions. People who they respect as having a firm grasp of the unfolding of events are considered very helpful to the SEE. When the SEE brings such a person into their fold, much trouble and wasted time and energy can be avoided due to such foresight, as opposed to the SEEs usual “try everything and see what works” method of solving problems.
6. Te Extraverted Logic

The SEE likes to constantly be doing things, but not if they don’t apply to the long term perspective. If it is suggested that something needs to be done to make a situation better, the SEE can implement such suggestion with boundless faith, energy, and enthusiasm if the suggestion comes from a trusted source. Their dual, the ILI, provides much-needed nourishment in this area of knowledge as the ILI strives to make practical, logical understanding of an unfolding situation. SEE gladly considers suggestions or modifications to the methods he proposes to for achieving his goals, especially if such advice comes from a trusted source.

7. Si Introverted Sensing

SEEs place little emphasis on this function despite having a strong sense of it. They prefer finding a state that is powerful or influential to one that is understated or nuanced. This often leads to an over-the-top attitude that can cause mutual disharmony because of their direct approach. They perceive this function but are unable to do much with regard to it and ignore it.

Knows exactly what is needed for an attractive, comforatable environment and is very good at evaluating this in present environments. If the SEE is “stuck” in a social environment he does not prefer, he can appear to enjoy it and get along with others well for a while, but he will soon become bored and feel a constant nagging in the back of his head to “get the f*** out of here!” In such a situation, he will look for the first excuse possible to exit the situation elegantly and preserve the good will of others towards him.
8. Fe Extraverted Ethics

When amongst those he holds a superficial relationship with, the SEE is very adept at livening up the mood, energizing others, and getting people excited about something. It usually bores him to do so though, and he would not seek out the company of such people who require this kind of involvement on a regular basis.

There is a tendency for this type not to be phased by intense emotional situations. When others discuss “the horrible tragedy” of things, or lose control of their emotions, crying intensely and feeling sorry for themselves, the SEE realizes that these feelings are just temporary and inconsequential. During these brief periods where a friend is emotionally unstable and unable to take care of themselves, the SEE will tend to the real life aspect of things, keeping their feet on the ground and helping them with basic survival until this period passes.

After the function descriptions, we can add other interesting sections like “typical life problems of LSI and how to deal with them,” “typical sentiments and life philosophy,” etc.
Common social roles

    The player who is always busy conquering people of the opposite sex and bragging of his or her social and sexual prowess.

    The aggressive trainer who likes to whip people into shape physically or socially and make them be more effective in society.

SEE subtypes
Sensory subtype Se-ESFp (Se-SEE)
Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov

Appearance

The sensory subtype is an authoritative, confident in himself, emotional, and assertive person. Behind his inner restlessness hides a constant thirst for vigorous activity. Inclined to take up too much and frequently ends up wasting his strengths and energies in vain. Despite his best efforts to be diplomatic, at times he’s too critical and categorical. Often feels indignant, nonetheless doesn’t forget to give compliments. Can look down at this conversation partner, act patronizing, poke at him with prickly jokes. But can also be very kind and courteous, and knows how to keep insisting and persuading someone for a long time, if needed. Possess good artistic sensibilities. Knows how to entertain people. Often he is somewhat thin, looks after his figure, periodically takes up physical exercise and sports. Shifts and changes poses frequently. Eyes are commonly not very large and deep seated. His gestures are impatient, movements seem gusty and nervous. Gait is relaxed or even somewhat shaky and muddled. Speech may be rushed, slightly slurred and too fast.

Character

Has the character of a leader. Self-assured, brave, and active. Flexible in changing his tactics. Orients quickly in a changing situation and adopts creative approaches as events unfold. Energetic and sociable. Knows how to strike up useful contacts. Has difficulty with accurately evaluating abilities and capabilities of people in resolution of concrete tasks, often experiences doubts and hesitation over this, which he prefers not to share with others. Can lead a large team. Resolute in extreme situations and quickly finds means to stabilize the situation.

Gravitates towards practical activity. Prefers near-lying, concrete goals that bring some tangible benefits. Tries to improve his competence in his occupation, to raise his own profile and prestige and strengthen his position. In the interest of his business can exert strong pressure on his partners, be overly demanding, and perseverant. The victory must always be attributed to him. Despite the scatteredness of his interests, he tries to bring the most important bulk of work or assignments to completion.

Prefers to have freedom of action. Does not recognize strict regulation and control. Dislikes monotony and routine. Due to his tendency towards irritability, may fall into depression. Quickly grows tired of routine and boredom, then seeks change and new experiences. Active and mobile, tries to be always informed about current events.

Cautious in new ventures, as he doesn’t have a good sense of their prospective future development. Mistrustful of new untested in practice ideas. Strives to understand general patterns and laws that lie behind topics and questions of interest to him, to soberly analyze the situation. Gathers needed information, establishes necessary links, consults with people who are more competent than him. Takes risks only after weighting everything out, but then he acts quickly and decisively. Has strong willpower, endurance, and perseverance in overcoming difficulties, but in the interests of his business is able to agree to temporary compromises.

Has a complex and problematic character. Demands that others need to reckon with him, to recognize his authority, to respect him for his business and personal qualities. Sensitive to criticism, admits his own mistakes with great difficulty. Feeling offended by someone, does not take advice, may even act the opposite. Very vulnerable and insufficiently self-critical, thus only praises of his merits and abilities can encourage him to activity.

Emotional, impulsive. Due to rapid changes of moods is unpredictable in his behavior: at times he is artistic and demonstrative, other times he is wary, prickly, and provocative. Passes on his moods to people around him. if he is in high spirits, can infect everyone with his optimism, cheer them up with original antics, and inspire any activity; if he is in a bad mood, he prefers to be alone, or to socialize with people who can give him their attention and sympathies. At such times, he is inclined to over-dramatize events. But can bring himself under control despite his soulful discomfort when he needs to find a way out of a crisis situation.

Expressive with his feelings. Knows how to deliver compliments. However, for educational purposes, he criticizes more often than he praises, but tries to do it in half-joking manner. As a result of his impressionability, as well as the contradictory nature of his character, it is rare that he achieves an inner balance. Finds it difficult to maintain smooth and stable relationships with other people. In his heart and soul he is a maximalist, and expects more than he can achieve. Thus, he is inclined to often feel disappointed in people who were initially sympathetic to him.
Description by Victor Gulenko

Very active, pressing ahead, enterprising person. Always “holds his sails to the wind”. Inclined to venturism, to plays on differences of prices, to risks and games with the law. If he suffers a defeat, he easily withdraws, putting forward other, less flexible partners. This is one of the most unpredictable types. Easily works in trade and mediatory structures, but not in production lines. Sharp changes in moods are characteristic of him: if he feels himself good, then everyone must feel good too, but if he feels himself bad then others must suffer it as well. Strikes up friendships with people at closer personal distances. Can create massive emotional pressuring. A good manager of his household. Can realize himself in service jobs, for example as a waiter at a restaurant, and as an actor, but only of light genres such as comedy or operetta. Easily manipulates with relations, bringing other people closer or farther away from him. Emotionally unstable, for this reason often cannot coexist with others in peace. In case of failure can quickly cause a provocation, then retreat into the shadow.
Ethical subtype Fi-ESFp (Fi-SEE)
Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov

Appearance

Active and mobile person. Willingly strikes up and moves around useful social connections. Knows how to give compliments. Talks about his possibilities and capabilities in much detail before people who are close to him, likes to make an impression. Intimate intonations in his voice, personal charm, and confidential manner of behavior, that predisposes towards trust, allow him to quickly win over his conversation partners. Often has convex eyes. His gestures are smooth and confident. His poses seem a tad relaxed. Inclined to dress unconventionally, brightly and extravagantly. Even if he has round forms and inclination to excess weight, doesn’t feel insecure over this and dresses in anything that he likes to wear. Likes to sit in somewhat scattered pose. His gait is elastic, prideful. Holds himself confidently, even authoritatively alike a patron towards others.

Character

Has good organizational skills. Inclined to expand the circle of his acquaintances and the field of his activity. Very curious. Strives to be aware of what is going on, and, given the opportunity, likes to show off his awareness of events. Interested in new approaches for resolution of various problems and willingly promotes them. Facilitates the introduction of new ideas into practice. Uses his authority and influence. Purposeful, but flexible in relationships. Prefers to reach agreements on mutually beneficial terms.

Exhibits large scope in his endeavors. Prefers to solve emerging problem right away, else he can get distracted and then cool off towards them. Inclined to take up many things at once, but doesn’t manage to finish everything due to lack of time, lack of interest, or his moods. Has a poorly developed sense of measure, wants to do more than is possible. Scattering his time and efforts on minor tasks, may miss out on those that are more important and necessary. With difficulty discerns general patterns and trends, so it can take on risky projects. Realizes his projects into reality with much enthusiasm. Being defeated, does not lose heart and soon finds a new application to his abilities.

A manager with good diplomatic skills. Able to persuade and mobilize other people, to inspire them to some new business, or set others against someone who hinders his interests. Usually, gets along well with everyone. In conversation he is polite, courteous, gentle and kind. Delivers plenty of compliments. Predisposes towards trust, creates an atmosphere of intimacy and sincerity. Tries not to bring quarrels to a serious resolution, can hold himself back in time. His democratic behavior, easygoing manner, and personal charisma help him win the sympathy of others.

In the society, he is often in the spotlight. Loves to tell about and to discuss various recent events and news. Knows how to entertain his companions. In need of admiration and recognition, as this stimulates him to even greater activity and enterprise. Despite the fact that he makes an impression of being a frank and sincere person, this openness has limits beyond which he doesn’t allow other people. Only a few people enjoy having his full confidence.

In business he is practical and calculating. Always knows precisely what he wants. Formally he may listen to advice, but makes decisions ??independently. Not economical in small things, but cautious when it comes to large expenditure of material resources. At home, he is accurate and neat, willingly tackles household problems. Requires cleanliness and order from people close to him. Looks after his health and his appearance. Aesthete, likes to dress with taste, values coziness and comfort. Very attentive towards people who are close to him, constantly takes care of them.
Description by Victor Gulenko

Places his bets and his trust on influential, reliable people, gradually bridging the interpersonal distance with them, if they are useful. Possesses a kind of snobbery, status, and authoritativeness. Needs to have everything better his office, his car, his country house, and so on. A good worker, can manage people and relations within a team. Pragmatic in his approach and good at making calculations. Not inclined to adventurism and to risk. A good politician, feels people well and pulls in the necessary persons. Plays a role of a thoughtful person who is working on some important problem. Dresses with some more restraint than the sensory subtype.
