
Wikisocion SLE composite

Sensing Logical Extrovert, SLE, Se Ti or archetype Georgy Zhukov.

1. Extroverted sensing

SLEs are strong-willed, independently-minded individuals who are able to recognize levels of willpower and motivation in others. They are almost always collected and ready for action. They are adept at organizing others effectively towards any given objective, and have no problem “getting the job done,” even if it requires stepping on a few toes. They will take the initiative and act at the opportune moment. SLEs will often act without complete information, improvising as they go, but are successful nonetheless. Instability energizes them, as they are active people who think clearly on the move and tend to be unsatisfied with a stationary, peaceful lifestyle.

SLEs easily spot power dynamics within any given structure, hierarchy or relationship, and strive for a secure position where they are less subordinate to others. At the same time, SLEs are comfortable with hierarchies, and recognize that they are a necessary part of everyday life. SLEs may sometimes seem dismissive of those of a lower social status, as if they were weak or inferior in some way. Likewise, they see dependence as weakness, and so strive to minimize their dependence on others, especially in their personal relationships.

SLEs’ energetic and direct nature tends to make them natural leaders. They are quick to assume this role, even in alien or unfamiliar environments. They usually adopt a direct administrative style and build a bureaucratic structure beneath them over time. They will take full responsibility for their actions, and understand these terms when they take a leadership-based role within a group, company or organization as being part of what leadership is about.

SLEs are highly observant and take note of all the objects present in their surroundings. They are well aware of which objects they have, and which they want, and tend to be possessive of their property. At the same time, they also have a generous streak and can easily bestow gifts and share their property with others to demonstrate acceptance of the other person or people.
2. Introverted logic

SLEs are inquisitive people. They are generally clear, consistent and systematic in their actions. They value competency and have an appreciation for method, viewing these things as vehicles through which strength, power and influence are demonstrated, values that SLEs consider important.

While SLEs see logical systems and structured views as necessary in life, they will often view said systems and views as changeable or expendable. Their use of Ti is flexible. They tend to gather - either legitimately or illegitimately - and retain information which they deem useful in attaining their goals.

SLEs come to their own conclusions about the world, although they tend towards simple generalizations. Because the SLE’s ideas are influenced by their own agenda, they can be more subjective than they claim to be; they are skilled at using objective truths to help them achieve their goals. It can be very difficult to argue with an SLE; rarely will they submit to another’s logic, since they believe that their own logic is so well developed. SLEs will often refuse to take others’ advice - even to their own detriment - as they can have difficulty seeing viewpoints that differ from their own (though this may also be a matter of pride). They also have the tendency to compare others’ plans to their own, and because of their confidence, will often consider them inferior or offer critique from their own point of view.

3. Extroverted intuition

SLEs are largely unaware of others’ hidden potential and abilities, since they size up people based on visible qualities and behavior. As a result, their judgments of people may appear simplistic or one-dimensional, and they may seriously misjudge or underestimate the capabilities of others, leading to surprises and sometimes rude awakenings. Likewise, SLEs may fail to recognize long-term opportunities in the world around them as they pursue the more readily visible and immediately available routes to success.

To make up for their weakness in assessment of possibilities, SLEs may hesitate to act, believing that they are increasing the amount of opportunities they will have. Instead, they end up using none, thus failing to attain the results they were aiming for. In this sense, the SLE would have been much better off following his instincts in the first place. Many SLEs are aware of this, and simply prefer not to search for hidden opportunities and avoid this weakness altogether.

When it comes to future planning, SLEs speak with confidence and apparent optimism, although in actuality, they rarely feel confident in positive outcomes and further possibilities. They may also consider advanced planning unnecessary for trivial circumstances, as they prefer to act impulsively.

Despite their highly observant nature, SLEs are careful to avoid appearing too eager for knowledge. They become suspicious when others are overly curious about them and ask too many searching questions. SLEs are more comfortable asking and responding to specific questions that are relevant to the context rather than general ones whose purpose is unknown. When the information being exchanged is too broad and general, SLEs may wonder what the point is or whether someone is planning to use that information to take advantage of them. Concerns about revealing too much information about themselves and their activities sometimes makes SLEs appear paranoid and secretive.
4. Introverted ethics

SLEs have trouble evaluating the internal emotional state of others unless it is accompanied by a visible emotional expression. When unable to do so, they become uneasy. When an individual expresses negative emotions, SLEs feel that they are unable to offer the support needed; they get uncomfortable and confused, and as a result, will not respond appropriately to the situation or will react in a way which is unhelpful to the individual. SLEs themselves constantly seem emotionally guarded, and so very rarely will anyone actually have the chance to “comfort” the SLE in the everyday use of the word. The best way to do so is to let the emotion run its course.

SLEs often tread carefully when it comes to interpersonal relationships because they recognize their inherent weakness in this function. They feel the need to not only be respected, but also to be held dear by others, precisely because they feel inept when it comes to relationships. Often their behavior will have the opposite effect of what they were hoping for; if they are trying to protect someone, that someone may view their “protection” as pure jealousy, and thus will attempt to break away. The SLE will respond with further limitations in order to counter what they believe is irrational rebelliousness, perhaps causing a breakdown of said relationship. Despite this, SLEs can without extra effort manage to maintain a superficial - purely physical or formal - relationship. Their IEI duals, however, have an understanding of SLEs; they know how to react with Fe in accordance with the SLE’s mood, and thereby tactfully avoid incurring any misunderstanding.

To ease their doubts about their relationships with others, SLEs are sincere when it comes to establishing new bonds with others; they feel it is important to inform others of their true nature so that they will not be taken by surprise when the SLE acts in a certain way. Likewise, the SLE will often prefer to take the initiative in establishing new friendships and relationships. This is partly due to the fact that SLEs fear psychological distance; taking a more upfront and aggressive approach would allow him to more accurately observe those around him, while removing the possibility of one’s gradual avoidance of the SLE.

SLEs are under the impression that they might gain respect or admiration from others, but can never be truly loved by anyone. Sometimes, SLEs can become paranoid about their relationships with others; they often mistrust declarations of affection, and so can appear insecure.

5. Introverted intuition

Since SLEs are such active, action-oriented individuals, they are often far more confident about their present situation than its broader implications. SLEs are attracted to people who can unearth connections between ideas and occurrences, thus collecting the “snapshots” of the present offered by SLEs and fitting them into a broader understanding of reality. SLEs long for a sense of some greater meaning in their lives beyond the immediately physical or material. They admire people who feel part of something greater than themselves and are not so dependent on the material world around them.

SLEs often develop their suggestive function through an interest in that which is hidden, mysterious, or eccentric. Learning about and discussing these things helps them overcome their habit of making quick assumptions, and gives them a more profound understanding of the world around them.

The SLE is impulsive, but at the same time quite conscious of the need to keep his impulsivity in check. He thus appreciates people who are confident in their ability to predict where present trends are leading and to pinpoint when to initiate action and when to refrain from it.
6. Extroverted ethics

SLEs find themselves unable to adequately raise an emotionally dull atmosphere, which is why they greatly appreciate another individual proficient in this function. SLEs naturally gravitate towards warm, cheerful atmospheres. If an SLE makes a social move that doesn’t get the emotional response he expects, he will feel uneasy or offended e.g. if no one laughs at a joke he tells.

In large groups or groups of new acquaintances, SLEs sometimes inadvertently estrange themselves from everyone else, which may give off a negative impression. The SLE may assume this contrary attitude in order to seek Fe while preserving the atmosphere of the group. If another individual shows acceptance of the SLE, he will immediately brighten and join the now warmer emotional mood. Alternatively, if the SLE fails to receive the desired emotional cues, he will further distance himself from the situation, highly averse to “being a drag” to the group dynamic.

There seems to be an “emotional contradiction” with the SLE; there is a constant internal struggle to both reveal to others their true feelings and a desire to guard themselves from adverse people or situations. He finds it extremely difficult - almost unnatural - to express his deepest feelings about an experience he’s had. SLEs try to avoid looking vulnerable, weak or dependent, which is why they appear to be such closely guarded individuals. SLEs will, like any other logical type, attempt to keep their feelings under control and subordinate to their reasoning. They refuse to let their emotions complicate professional relationships, and make a conscious effort to maintain the same emotionality with all.

SLEs are unable to suppress the manifestations of their moods, and thus greatly appreciate individuals who can deal with their sudden, uncontrollable outbursts of emotions. For many SLEs, expressive activities such as acting, musical performance or even religion serve as ideal “ethical vents”, helping to give them the emotional release they struggle to find in other areas of society.

7. Introverted sensing

SLEs are aware of how something makes them feel, but give little concern to it. (They will not, however, refrain from expressing their physical attraction or desire towards another individual.)

SLEs effortlessly manage to create an environment of comfort for themselves, but this comfort extends to very little, as they see no need to occupy themselves with creating excessively cozy atmospheres. As long as SLEs are not overly unhealthy or malnourished, they’re unconcerned with what they eat and drink. SLEs are quite capable of living with the bare minimum and not feeling disturbed or unsettled by their circumstances. This gives the SLE the ability to ignore discomfort and tedium, powering through such obstacles in order to accomplish their goals.
8. Extroverted logic

SLEs have the ability to pick out information which will help them achieve a goal; they will often refer to well-known facts, statistics and historical examples to back up their claims. Often their own viewpoint will remain standing in the face of a majority opinion, as they know how to formulate a strong argument. SLEs will often question the authenticity or reliability of informational sources, preferring not to use those which are doubtful or which have been proven wrong in the past. They enjoy learning about a wide variety of things, and are motivated by the prospect of rewards and status; they like to prove their authority and skills e.g. through a large amount of academic awards or extra curricular certificates.

SLEs are very practical, hard-working individuals. They know how to utilize their time effectively in order to reach any given goal, and have no problem discerning efficiency and utility from incompetence and uselessness. Nonetheless, they retain a kind of “don’t care” attitude when it comes to productivity and effectiveness. They feel that it is a waste of time to sit around and discuss efficiency, and would rather act effectively. SLEs may playfully mock those who they believe are “obsessed” with productivity, efficiency or effective action.

SLEs often assume the role of someone who is always ready to assist people in their practical affairs, even to the point of others’ annoyance or offense to the SLE’s obtrusiveness (which is simply enthusiasm to the SLE). They enjoy receiving thanks for their services, and take full responsibility for their actions. Their intentions towards others in this area are generally always good.
Common social roles

    The alpha male (or female) who is constantly preoccupied with his territory and social status, threats to that territory, and making sure everyone recognizes his leadership and status.

    The challenger or revolutionary who rejects existing authority and organizational structures and tries to overturn them and establish his own system, or simply overturn them for fun without putting anything else in their place.

    The rogue artist who revels in his or her own naughtiness, likes to shock and appall audiences, and doesn’t take his own work too seriously.

SLE subtypes
Sensory subtype Se-ESTp (Se-SLE)
Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov

Appearance

Seems clever, impulsive, seemingly concealing within him a latent threat. Far from being easygoing and appeasable. In reality, he can be sharp, sufficiently aggressive, and persistent. Can hold a grudge and be sufficiently resourceful to make the life of his ill-wishers become intolerable. Has a contrasting and unpredictable character. With those whom he loves can be kind, tender, even sentimental. Possesses a sense of humor, that easily molds into sarcasm and caustic irony. Talkative, charming, witty, critical and sharp. Likes epithets and slang expressions. His movements are springy and fast. Gait is somewhat waddling, with knees slightly bent, which yields a stealthy feline semblance. Has a characteristic evaluating gaze with slight squint. Usually looks after his health, periodically takes up physical sport, exercise of gymnastics. Dresses expensively and with taste. Most often he makes a bright impression of a self-assured and prospering person.

Character

Insistent, energetic, resolute person. While trying to achieve his goals, he acts both directly and through intermediaries. As a rule, he is capable of becoming the winner. Knows how to manage people, can impose on them his wishes and will, to involve and draw them in by useful and interesting projects and tasks. Knows how to be liked and how to please others: charming, possesses a sense of humor, a good conversationalist. Natural leader: needs competition, struggle, passion, victory, without these his vitality wanes. Boredom is his first enemy. An absence of decent employment and application of his abilities makes him quite a difficult partner.

He is oriented at achieving major concrete goals, but often runs into difficulty when trying to choose them. It takes time for him to get going, he doubts, thinks things over again. But once he makes a choice, he acts swiftly, amping up his pace and not resting until he has realized the conceived. A very resourceful and flexible tactician. Active and operative, in periods of elation his capacity for work is very high. Doesn’t like unasked for advice, prefers to make decisions independently. Can hear out his conversation partner, but leave the last word to himself. Doesn’t tolerate commanding tone in others. If someone tries to pressure him, he resolutely counters it. In the interest of his business, shows diplomatic abilities, be considerate and courteous.

Dislikes it very much when others show initiative that seems to be out of place, for example, try to impose something or hurry others - in this case, can do the opposite. Very self-loving and easily offended, but tries to hide it, considering this to be his weakness. Doesn’t forgive tactlessness and injustice towards himself. This can provoke a flash of aggression in him.

Insightful, witty, has a critical turn of mind. When angry shows intolerance towards other people’s shortcomings. Knows how to give a brief and succinct description of a person, to ridicule him in presence of strangers, to put him on the spot. Actively asserts his interests, and those of his loved ones. Can create an unfavorable environment for disagreeable people, but for those whom he loves, he tries to provide the necessary comfort, showing care and attention.

Feels proud of his successes and seeks high valuation of himself. Has a tendency to overestimate his abilities, which leads to arrogance and a wish to teach others. Self-instilled confidence in his own rightness and insufficient self-criticism do not simplify his relations with others. Respects people who are influential and authoritative. Lenient and forgiving towards those who are compliant, soft and vulnerable, in need of help, especially towards children. Often provides them his protection and support. Nonetheless, he is strict, even harsh both at home and at work.

Very stubborn and demanding. In personal relationships with difficulty adjusts to his partner, as he is rather uncompromising. Using willpower, can make himself subdue feelings to reason. Proud and independent. It is often unpredictable in his actions, depends on the changes in his mood. Changes his interests and his hobbies often, but his affection tries to keep for a long time. Cherishes old friendships, although he usually doesn’t show sentimentality in his relationships.

Strives towards high material level of life. Has a good aesthetic taste, gourmand, cannot deny himself that which gives him pleasure. Bold in sex, but mistrustful of love, afraid of being deceived in his hopes or to get lost in wishful thinking. Quickly grows tired of monotony: he is attracted by psychological games with a partner, when hope interchanges with doubt - in this lies an element of excitement for him.
Description by Victor Gulenko

Sharp, demonstrative, attacking style of behavior. Can be expressive and expansive to the point of being aggressive. Feels at home in emergency and crisis situations, abruptly joins into conflicts, can apply pressure in order to create order. If he finds himself unoccupied by anything, can even provoke a conflict, so that later he can take initiative into his own hands. Emotional and sociable, with his attention won’t pass by a single person of the opposite sex. Women of this type also take initiative in getting to know potential partners. Usually muscular, active and mobile, somewhat thin. Has a well developed taste, a gourmand. In fashion drawn to exquisiteness and prestige.
Logical subtype Ti-ESTp (Ti-SLE)
Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov

Appearance

Leaves an impression of calm strength and self-assurance. Rational and consistent in his affairs. Hardworking and enduring. Usually he is cold-blooded, restrained, collected and unfazed, but in moments of irritation does not conceal his anger, which shows in his look and in sudden categorical gestures. When he is calm, he is polite and courteous, tough keeps his conversation partners at a distance. His humor is blunt and can be somewhat crude. Sometimes he has a fast moving, distrustful look that looks from under his eyebrows. Appearance is usually serious, somewhat guarded and alert. Gait and gestures are harmonious, flowing, and precise. Dresses somewhat monotonously, and strictly, although at times surprisingly brightly and extravagantly. Values quality in clothing, occasionally putting together sets from only a few items. In most cases has a tendency to not stand out. This applies both to how he behaves and how he dresses. Seems cold and inaccessible, even though he tries to be appropriate, even-tempered and well-wishing towards others. Holds himself with dignity.

Character

Balanced and self-controlled. Tries not to lose his composure under any circumstances. Restrained and appropriate in his statements, but at times can flare up. Feels very upset when he has lost his temper in front of other people. Authoritative and serious, has a well-developed sense of self-worth. Prefers to talk about that in which he considers himself competent. Relies on official and trusted source of information. Distrustful of new theories, hypotheses, and assumptions that haven’t been tested in practice. Skeptical of the occult and the esoteric.

This is a person of action and not reflection. When the time comes to react, he orients quickly in the changing circumstances, boldly takes risks, carefully weighting all chances and not losing his interests from sight. Enthusiastically takes up new tasks, projects, or business. Interested in laws and instructions. Can maintain good documentation. If he is asked for advice or a consultation, delves into the details of the issue and gives concrete advice. Predisposes other people towards himself by giving them his attention and providing his services.

Mobilizes beforehand to overcome obstacles, calculating ahead of time all the risks of current situation. Always has a good sense of the real situation, and knows how to extract benefit from it. Knows how to properly arrange people to carry out a job or assignment. Well perceptive of other people’s business acumen and capabilities. However, finds it difficult to evaluate more distant prospects of projects and relationships.

Grows bored if he doesn’t find an application to his abilities, or if he has to finish something he’s lost an interest in or that which has no practical interest for him. Only new experiences and impressions and frequent changes in activity raise his vitality.

Rationalistic, pragmatic, and hard working. Very logical and practical in his activities and in business. Punctual, responsible, demanding of himself and expects the same from others. Looks to quality in everything. Unforgiving of simulation and negligence. Evaluates efficacy not by the efforts expended but by the final outcome. Likes to act boldly, takes big risks, but prepares for it thoroughly and in detail.

Discerning and sensible, speaks with a confident tone, tries to convince by facts. Very practical, dislikes theories and pointless activities. In contact with strangers via indirect questions assesses their position in society, connections and capabilities. Looks for common ground and ways in which it is possible to come together to solve common business interests. Undemonstrative, but when a chance presents itself likes to emphasize his achievements. Proud, if he has achieved everything in his life by his own effort.

Authoritarian and possesses a strong will, but, if needed, can demonstrate flexibility in communication, even make temporary concessions for the sake of reaching his ultimate goal. Understands the importance of material and financial incentives, knows how to use them, without losing his own benefit. Shows a friendly, well-wishing attitude towards others, but in work and business requires unity and unanimity.

Considers restraint in expressing feelings to be a guarantee of their seriousness and reliability. Proud, doesn’t impose his company, doesn’t know how to entertain guests. Rarely makes compliments even towards women. Lives by his mind and puts business above personal sympathies, due to which may unwittingly offend other people, himself not attaching any importance to this. Afraid of falling into dependency, even on people who are close to him. Quite secretive, doesn’t like when others try to “climb into his soul”. Can deflect a direct conversation and skillfully place his conversation partner on the spot.

In his heart, he is a bit guarded, mistrustful and suspecting. Afraid of trickery and betrayal by those whom he trusts. Inclined to fall into pessimism and melancholy. Ponders over his problems, especially of personal nature, tries not to share them with people around him. Opens up his heart and soul only to very close and tested friends. In moments of despair, needs understanding, compassion and consolation, but due to his mistrust he doesn’t risk to open up and be honest. Not seldom turns to alcohol to relieve stress and tensions.
Description by Victor Gulenko

Prefers to remain in the shadow, not showing his aspirations, but constantly holds his hand on the pulse of all that is happening around him. Outwardly appears balanced and phlegmatic. Before acting, checks all the variations of possible consequences, and only then enters into the game. Distrustful, careful, skeptic, conservative and realistic. Due to his low sociability makes an impression of being introverted. Once he has identified a target, acts slowly, by the method of “slowly compressing ring”.
