
Wikisocion SLI composite

Sensing Logical Introtim, SLI, Si Te or archetype Jean Gabin.

1. Si Introverted Sensing

SLIs are naturally good at knowing what kinds of activities and stimuli will produce which sensations and physical states in themselves and the people around them. They are highly sensitive to sensations of internal discomfort and dissonance, or when someone or something is aesthetically out of place. They usually take quick action to remove the discomfort, dissonance, or misplacement so that things “feel right.” They are attracted to material (concrete) objects which produce the “right” sensations and physical states, such as stereo systems which produce the best sounds or clothes that produce the best feelings either through their pleasant texture and ease of use or through their aesthetic appeal. They dislike it when others deny them of pleasurable material objects and can get quite possessive and territorial when claiming or re-claiming them.

SLIs are skilled at recognizing and remembering their own and others’ internal physical states and at imagining how different things would affect that state. When analyzing the behavior of themselves and others, they focus on these physical states and see them as determining much of a person’s actions. They prefer to keep their lifestyle and living space simple and to avoid excessive, gaudy possessions and excessively complex living habits and duties. SLIs encourage those they care about to take the time to experience pleasurable and soothing sensations, avoid getting caught up in the hustle and bustle of everyday life, and to listen to their bodies and their sincere inner desires. They can be concerned with their own health and those they know.

SLIs are drawn to situations which allow them to maximize these physical states and like to dwell on soothing, pleasurable sensations, or the enjoyment of physical motion. They often seek physical and manual involvement in work activities. SLIs prefer to get involved in business projects rather than sit back and let things happen on their own (weak Ni too). SLIs are adept at portraying excitement and disgust through their physical gestures.
2. Te Extraverted Logic

SLIs typically have a dry, matter-of-fact speaking style and focus on conveying accurate information rather than emotions. They like to take note of and emphasize the usefulness or uselessness of things and how well things or people achieve their intended goals. SLIs are often masters at getting the greatest return from the fewest possible actions.

SLIs place great emphasis on having high quality objects and people in the right places. They enjoy the process of analyzing and comparing different goods and services when making purchasing decisions and do not like to delegate this task to other people. They enjoy the process of assessing quality and functionality and finding the best price for the chosen option. They effectively and sparingly allot resources and discern between primary and secondary needs. They have a good sense for how much their work is worth and whether something is a good deal or not. They have little problem giving up work that brings too little return for the time and effort invested. They have no interest in careers in which they do not believe they are the best. SLIs recognize fairness and conscientiousness (or the lack thereof) in other people and try to avoid working with those who cannot be trusted to follow through.

The SLI’s objective and creative motive is to find materials, localities, spaces, and actions that will engage and move the senses and produce proper sensations within people. The SLI is essentially “a person’s person”. However, SLIs are only keen on people from a distance, because people are objects varying in quality of nature. SLIs do not prefer doing much complicated analysis (subdued Ti) and rather enjoy the process of synthesising things they sense. They understand their entire world by identifying what causes pleasant and unpleasant reactions. When identifying these, the SLI feels a sense of power because this allows them to adapt and use objects (and people) as he or she feels need.

3. Ni Introverted Intuition

SLIs cannot stand being hurried and prodded by other people to do things faster. If there is a real reason to move faster, they want to be told the reason rather than be fed feelings of anxiety, which paralyses them rather than spurring them to action. SLIs know that sometimes there is more to something than meets the eye, and are aware of their intense focus on the immediate present moment.

SLIs try to reject all feelings of anxiety and insecurity about the future and simply accept what is. They often entertain doubts and worries about what the future might bring, but they try to keep them to themselves and present a positive, optimistic facade. SLIs tend to simplify the future, putting less importance about what is to come. As a result they can be oblivious to the consequences of their actions. They appreciate people who are genuine optimists and are able to make provision for many different outcomes even as they enthusiastically pursue just a few opportunities (leading Ne types).
4. Fe Extraverted Ethics

SLIs feel insecure and tense in situations with loud emotional displays — whether positive or negative — as well as in any situations expecting vocal displays of feelings and passions. Therefore, SLIs try to ignore anything relating to their vulnerable function. However, it becomes most prominent when they cannot properly organise the sensations, actions, and movements of their physical world. When this happens, they will feel hopelessness and extreme loss.

SLIs prefer to have lots of time to get to know people so that they can let out their hidden passions in a safe and friendly environment where no one will judge them. These passions are tender and must be treated with respect. If they are told they are not passionate enough or are too passionate, they will take offence and hide their emotions from that person in the future. They find it offensive when people assume things about their emotional state based on their expressions, because they find such inferences are too often wrong. Instead of explaining to the person how they are actually feeling, they will get annoyed and push the person away. If an SLI feels comfortable with a person, he can go on and on about his feelings, explaining them in-depth - not anything related to his present Fe state but instead Fi opinions about people he knows and, more often than not, what he finds irritating about them (which is perhaps related to Si).

SLIs see no reason to get worked up about things. They tend to condemn people who do not control their emotional displays and “fly off the handle.” They believe that people should think first about the effect their words and emotions will have on other people rather than just spilling out negative or potentially hurtful feelings as they feel like it. If someone has chewed them out in an emotional way just once, they tend to hold this incident against the person for years. To them such behavior is unnecessarily demeaning and malicious.

SLIs extremely dislike socialising (particularly amongst large groups) because they are incapable of creating and sustaining a wide range of emotions for people. They are also quite unable to deal with the painful and complicated job of organising the unpredictable emotions that they can receive from so many people at any one given time. Consequently, SLIs are often reclusive and socially unengaged despite being rather comfortable around a few people they have learned and when having one-on-one conversations on subjects in which they are knowledgeable.

5. Ne Extraverted Intuition

SLIs are typically focused on what they are experiencing inside and are rarely aware of what qualities people around them might notice in them or how much curiosity (whether desired or undesired) their behavior and statements might arouse in others. They are genuinely surprised to learn that they have been studied carefully and “figured out” at a distance by people they barely knew existed. Yet they do not feel threatened by this, but rather flattered or entertained.

SLIs have a hard time recognizing and taking advantage of opportunities that do not already lie under their noses. They tend to be naive in their expectations for the future and put little effort into putting themselves into strategic positions where they will be able to seize opportunities when the right time comes, or minimize their losses if things turn against them. They are drawn to people who have a well-developed imagination and foresight and can plan many steps ahead. SLIs often subconsciously expect others to motivate them towards something new as they find it difficult to spur themselves into action.

SLIs knowledge of people comes from direct personal experience rather than detached study and comparison with others, and they are largely oblivious to people until they have interacted with them one-on-one. SLIs find it difficult to give accurate general descriptions of people’s personalities that would ring true to other people, but they know what the person “feels like” in interaction. They appreciate people who are both able to offer a fresh perspective and incorporate the perspectives of the SLI. They always want to expand upon their interests, and love it when they find new information that strengthens their knowledge base. SLIs are playful with “what if” situations and derive much of their sense of humor from this.

SLIs, like the other IP temperaments, can go through phases of inertia if nothing new is presented to them. They will hang on to their everyday routine if they cannot find a new hobby or activity, which proves difficult for them to do on their own. SLIs enjoy brainstorming and sharing ideas between people, no matter how trivial and ‘impossible’ they may be, and are often satisfied with the simple discussion of these things. When new opportunities hit them in the face they become overjoyed and delighted, and expend a great deal of work to materialize them.
6. Fi Introverted Ethics

SLIs very much enjoy personal conversations where people talk about their feelings and personal experience in an atmosphere of trust and intimacy. However, they tend to willingly follow others’ initiative or create external conditions where emotional intimacy is likely to occur rather than actually initiating the intimacy themselves. SLIs are easy people to talk to about one’s personal sentiments about life, people, and relationships, since they listen closely and with genuine interest as long as the person they are hearing out is not worked up or agitated. They are careful not to offend one’s feelings and always maintain a comfortable atmosphere in these situations.

SLIs appreciate such qualities as concern, tact, and openness about one’s feelings. These are the kinds of people they are drawn to for friendship. They are usually very polite and loyal; particularly to close family members and the very few people they count as friends. They expect the same returned, but often suffer quiet disappointment.

7. Se Extraverted Sensing

SLIs try to avoid making demands on others and themselves and prefer to motivate people by offering them enjoyable rewards rather than pressuring them to act. They are impervious to forceful attempts by others to make them do things and become very stubborn when pressured. However, when under extreme stress or in a hostile situation, SLIs can become very aggressive and forceful for periods― sometimes with malicious intent. This function is the strongest (and malevolent) part of the SLIs’ subconscious.

Taking action solely to better their own economic status (how rich they appear to others) or social condition does not often appeal to the SLI.
8. Ti Introverted Logic

SLIs like to philosophize and analyze life, but they use logical categories situationally rather than searching for a single cohesive structure for understanding the world. There are always unknown variables and a whole realm of inner experience that they feel is hard to classify, but must simply be experienced for what it is. They are typically skeptical of established social rules and, although understood, they prefer to break away from such formal standards, such as traditional greetings and handshakes. SLIs will keep to themselves unless approached directly. They have a strong sense of individuality in their reasoning and do not like having it challenged. SLIs are often pessimistic about what other people believe is true if these beliefs counter their own understanding, and will defend what they feel is correct if someone tries to discount them. However, getting someone to understand their logic is not a serious priority.

SLIs at times may play skilfully with categories and formal logical arguments, but they do not usually take themselves too seriously. However, they consistently label and classify the things and people around them - their understanding of the world is important. They become easily annoyed with people who emphasize theory and generalizations instead of solid factual knowledge.
Common social roles

    The quiet individualist who marches to his or her own drumbeat, cultivating eccentric, yet enjoyable interests and pretty much ignoring everything else.

    Mr. or Mrs. down-to-earth, who takes a dry and simple attitude towards everything, deflating all excitement and elevated emotions and sentiments.

SLI subtypes
Sensing subtype Si-ISTp (Si-SLI)
Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov

Appearance

The sensory subtype is composed and cordial, not demonstrative, obstinate and uncompromising in defending his views and interests. Supports his positions rationally by logic and facts, and not by thought-up or assumed accounts. Diligent, laborious, patient, persistent in his work and studies. If some project captures his interest, he will tirelessly try to improve his results, both intellectual and material. At times he needs a change of occupation, but will attempt to bring previous work to completion. From time to time he becomes contemplative, withdraws into himself, distances from his social circle, submerges into his own problems. Somewhat restricted in dialogue, may be brief and to the point, but tries to be cordial and good-natured if he feels tensions come up conversation. Prefers items that are original and of good quality, yet simple and unpretentious, enjoys handmade things. Aesthete, pays attention to his health, appearance, and figure, tries to dress tastefully. Has graciously lazy gestures, at the same time confident and precise movements. Gait is a little relaxed and springy. Doesn’t like to hurry, but neither is he slow. Seems somewhat proud and haughty.

Character

Original person with strongly expressed individuality, but due to indecisiveness and modesty may prefer to be in the background. Combines sober realism and practicality with a drive for self-development. If he finds his calling, can pursue it for a long time, eventually achieving high skill and professionalism. He is never fully satisfied with what has been achieved and constantly develops it further, providing the best form for the content. Curious, tangentially interested in other ways for expressing and apply his talents and abilities, trying himself in various directions. However, he poorly sees future prospects of projects and work, and due to this may miss out on important opportunities. Frequently feels disappointed regarding lost opportunities.

Aesthete who loves convenience, nature, travel. Willingly shares his impressions and stories of the world around him with those he’s sympathetic towards. Possesses a sense of humor with a touch of irony. Notices many details. Very impressionable. Intolerant of boorishness, poor tastes, callousness and crassness. Dislikes pathos, demonstrative appeals and calls, as well as prideful attitudes, conceit. He’s impressed by bold, sincere, friendly, and open people, who encourage him, instill belief in success and lift his spirits. An unpredictable and independent by nature partner sparks in him a sense of curiosity and a desire to keep such a person.

Uncompromising in matters of principle. Does not like to concede once conquered positions, although also knows how to take into account the rules and regulations of his milieu. Quite mobile, cherishes inner personal peace and freedom of action. Sometimes finds it interesting to test himself in complex situations, to overcome difficulties, which adds to his self-affirmation, however, dislikes taking excessive risks and recklessness. Suffers from changeable moods that affect his performance. Does not like forcing himself to do something. If others violate his inner balance, he can get hot-tempered, flare up, of which later he may regret. In most situations tries to be composed and loyal.

Poorly tolerates routine, monotony, and boredom. Falls into apathy and depression if he needs to have the same engagement for a long time. Cannot engage in lengthy paper-pushing or purely intellectual work. Dislikes abstract conversations, prefers deeds instead. Needs specific, practical activities, outdoor engagements, and frequent change of impressions for vitality. Dislikes obeying someone else’s will and schedule. Won’t take up useless work, but if he is passionate about something, develops high work capacity. Prepares for tasks and assignments in advance, thinking through the details of work he needs to do, to later work smoothly, accurately, and quickly. Is thorough and conscientious in his work and studies. Does everything qualitatively. Knows his own worth and feels proud of the results of his work.

Somewhat restrained in communication and emotional expression. With skepticism refers to active emotional displays, but is very sensitive towards compliments. Sometimes he seems unapproachable and official, though he tries to create an atmosphere of simplicity and ease. Internally emotional and vulnerable, but manages to avoid conflict by showing good judgment and diplomacy. Critical, ridiculing, sarcastic, but tries to spare the feelings of others and thus speaks of their flaws only at the appropriate time and in harmless manner. Not interested in the personal lives of others and speaks of his own with reluctance. Tries to be faithful in relationships and to always keep his promises.

Sometimes becomes distracted by other activities living at home in “artistic mess”, but then mobilizes to quickly restore organization and order. Skillfully solves daily problems. Strives towards well provided for life, which motivates him to work and activity. Inclined to arrange everything with convenience for himself, although tries taking interests of others into account. Can delay making a decision, needs support and inspiration. Once the decision is made, despite seeming inertia and relaxation, shows enviable perseverance in achieving his goals. Does not explain to anyone else the process of his work. His achievements and results are often a surprise to others.

This is a person of heightened sensitivity: poorly reacts to sultry air, unpleasant odors, uncomfortable shoes and clothing, unsightly appearance of people or food. Does not tolerate drunkenness, dirtiness, poor behavior. Sensitive towards discomfort, both external and internal. Afraid of falling sick and growing old, so takes care of himself and is very concerned about his loved ones. Values uniqueness and originality in clothing and in the interior of the room, does not like standards, pays much attention to quality. Appreciates handmade creative work, whether it’s playing a musical instrument, embroidery, or handicrafts. Tries to dress elegantly and tastefully. Holds himself confidently, with calm and quiet dignity.
Description by Victor Gulenko

Aesthete, oriented at pleasant impressions. More easily comes into contact with other people and is more flexible than the logical subtype. More optimistic, but less disposed to performing work. Has developed refined tastes, a connoisseur and a sybarite. Gravitates towards humanitarian disciplines: literature, art, linguistics, history. Presents him/herself with pleasant aesthetics, choosing clothing and settings that emphasize his or her good looks, selecting for harmonious and complimentary tones.
Logical subtype Te-ISTp (Te-SLI)
Description by V. Meged and A. Ovcharov

Appearance

The logical subtype is impatient and active, loves frequent changes and new impressions. Industrious, hardworking, and very caring. His behavior is unpredictable and characterized by unexpected transitions from aloof contemplation to expedient activity. Keeps certain reserve and distance from other people, and at times can be overly direct, harsh, and inconsiderate in conversation. Very independent and proud, does as he wishes. In conversation he is prickly and ironic, but becomes friendly and shows consideration if he has sympathy and respect for his conversation partner. Noticing that he has offended someone, regrets it and softens his communication, tries to turn everything into a joke, or may even apologize and try to calm the person down. Behind his external seeming inaccessibility he is quite impressionable and vulnerable. Dislikes lack of comfort in all of its manifestations; thus strives to fix, adjust, and adapt everything for greatest convenience. Responsible, reliable, and punctual. Demanding towards himself and others. Holds himself with cold dignity, but at times he can be emotional. His gestures are impulsive, confident, resolute. Gait is quick and measured.

Character

A creative person of practical inclinations. Technological, rational, quick-thinking in business. Has low tolerance for unoriginality, cliches, and primitivism in working methods. Seeks and searched for new methods for improving labor. Skeptical and distrustful towards new ideas, oriented at quick and concrete results. Does not suffice with old approaches and takes risks in testing innovative solutions in practice.

After verifying the effectiveness of a new method or approach, develops, improves and polishes it further, demonstrating ingenuity and perseverance. Knows how to squeeze the most out of an idea. Hardworking and energetic, cannot stand wasteful expenditures of time and efforts. Likes to work as hard as he can, quickly and efficiently, with high productivity. Appreciates convenience and good working conditions.

This is an individualist, on whom it’s difficult to impose anything. Prefers to solve his problems on his own, by the means he has at his disposal. Does not like asking for help or loaning anything. Prefers to have all he needs at his disposal, to not depend on anyone else. Everything that is needed for work, project, or business he acquires in advance. Tries to have the entire inventory of “tools” needed for rational labor and active leisure time.

All of the adaptations, equipment, and tools needed for his work he keeps in perfect order, which allows to save time in work when they become needed. Becomes very upset if he forgets to put something in its place and then has to search for it for a long time. Dislikes paperwork drudgery and finds opportunities to reduce it to a minimum. All the needed documentation he keeps in order to avoid further wasting of time.

Usually reaches a high level of professionalism and excellence in his occupation, but is somewhat unsure in himself and diffident, prone to having doubts and fluctuations. In need of moral and material incentives. Undemonstrative, but is very sensitive to the assessment of his abilities and becomes offended if his work is not noticed and not praised. At the same time, dislikes undeserved compliments. Respects capable and talented people; tries to create all the possible conditions for the development of their abilities.

Contrasting in his behavior: relaxed and quietly contemplative, then suddenly active and mobile. Cannot be in the same place or engage in the same task for a long time. Impatient, does not like it when the same subject is discussed at length. Himself is usually not very wordy and may be quiet. Good at distributing his own activities and assignments: if there is time he does not rush things, but once he feels that there is time to act, he becomes very mobile, hurrying himself and others. Usually does everything by the deadlines, despite the fact that he often gets distracted by other activities. Very efficient, proactive, and clever when it comes to taking care of household and economic problems. Willingly engages in physical labor, repairs things, facilities and equipment. Can do much with his own hands.

Strives to be knowledgeable over various topics. Very curious and may read a lot. Has many diverse interests, easily learns something new. A good lecturer or teacher, as he can explain complex things simply and effectively. Does not tolerate criticism and suggestions on topic on which he views himself competent. In conversation, tries to persuade others using logic and facts. It is hard to convince him in a dispute. In what he considers to be true, he is persistent up to being obstinate: does not go for a compromise even in the most critical situations. Proving his own correctness he becomes hot-tempered, impulsive and unhinged.

Secretive and suspicious. Dislikes being the center of attention. Finds it difficult to fit into a society he is unfamiliar and unaccustomed with. Reluctantly makes contact with unfamiliars and strangers, prefers to communicate with like-minded people. Not accepting of familiarity, can with a look or gesture to put a person in his or her place. Has a heightened sense for maliciousness, affectedness and falsehood. Cannot bring himself to talk to the needed, but unpleasant to him people. After break relations with someone, does not go for reconciliations and concessions first, even if he has realized that he was in the wrong.

If others don’t understand him, he withdraws into himself and becomes cold, sharp, and unapproachable. Does not know how to eliminate tension in communication, prefers to leave and separate himself from the previous conversation partner with a wall of silence. Responsive only to the kindness and sincerity. Cannot stand hypocrisy. Himself if very honest in relationships, conscientious, obligated and punctual. He can always be relied upon: reliable in friendship, love and business. Readily comes to aid of the first request, sympathizes with another’s misfortune or grief. However, he can always turn away from a person who has lost his trust and respect.

Grows tired of monotony and routine. Willingly travels. Interactions with nature calm him down. New occupations, interests, and hobbies raise his vitality and help him to overcome apathy. Often he enjoys sports, the excitement in the competition. Not averse to experiencing thrilling and risky sensations, but without the risk of injury. Careful towards all living things: people, nature, animals, and even insects. Does not “play” with his own or another’s life. Does not tolerate coercion, and himself does not know how to pressure others. Find it difficult to hit anyone, but, at the same time, he is very independent and not always considerate of the interests of others when they do not coincide with his own. When someone tries to limit his freedoms, he may break up the relations.

Has a hard time enduring through physical and mental discomfort, and tries to do everything possible to remove it. For the same reason, avoids bad habits. Closely monitors his health and physical form. Appreciates beauty and harmony in everything, although finds it difficult to reach an internal balance. Very impressionable, inclined to fall into depression even over minor reasons. A fatalist at heart, believer in the inevitability, and does not try to forcibly change the course of events. Often lacks in resoluteness.

Suspicious and proud. Afraid to show awkward emotions or to seem intrusive, thus hides his problems from the outsiders, preferring to suffer them alone. Finds it difficult to express his feelings in words. Does not like to demonstrate how he feels in front of strangers. Tries to talk of love in a joking humorous manner, risking being misunderstood. Not sentimental, manifestation of tenderness come to him with much difficulty. Proves his love by actions and deeds and not by words. Very attentive, caring, and dedicated. If misunderstandings happen, he usually does not attempt to justify himself or make excuses. Internally he feels himself lonely, if there is no sensitive tactful person by his side, capable of understanding everything without extraneous words, and of encouraging him in times of pessimism and melancholy.

This logical subtype of SLI is not very common, and, as we have noticed, for this reason gives the greatest number of errors in typing not only by ours, but also by foreign experts. Most often, this type is confused for type SLE (due to secrecy and distrust of the latter, which get falsely interpreted as introversion) and ILI, who often overestimates his practicality and considers himself a realist due to analytical mind and a well-developed logic of actions, as well as other types.

Developed by us theory of i.e. accentuations, which provides both visual clues and characteristic manifestations, related to the heightened expressions of the 12 information elements of TIMs, - or rather, the subtypes - will help avoid many errors in typing and testing.
Description by Victor Gulenko

Outwardly seems business-oriented, somewhat severe, cold and unapproachable. A realist and skeptic, distrustful of novelty, and of those who advance ideas of declarative nature [slogans?]. Will always avoid working on useless projects due to pragmatic nature. Very dynamic and technologically effective. Can extract maximum benefits even from something that is seems useless. His products are always at the forefront and will stand up to any competition on the market. In clothing he is restrained, conservative, and prefers a sporty, technological style.
